one cannot wonder that so very fiea young man , with family , fortune , every thing in his favour , should think highly of himself .
my excellent father died about fieyears ago ; and his attachment to mr wickham was to the last so steady , that in his will he particularly recommended it to me , to promote his advancement in the best manner that his profession might allow , and if he took orders , desie that a valuable family living might be his as soon as soon as it became vacant .
our instrument is a capital one , probably superior to - you shall try it some day . - do your sisters play and sing ? "
but i knew i should persuade you at last .
you will have a charming mother in - law , indeed , and of course she will be always at pemberley with you . "
she cried . - " i , who have prie myself on my discernment ! - i , who have valued myself on my abilities !
i will answer for it he never cared three straws about her .
he bore it with noble indifference , and she would have imagie that bingley had receie his sanction to be happy , had she not seen his eyes lieieturned towards mr darcy , with an expression of half laughing alarm .
" my style of writing is very different from yours . "
" i think you said she was a widow , sir ?
what felicity !
i had hoped that our sentiets coincie in every particular , but i must so far differ from you as to think our two youngest daughters uncommonly foolish . "
louisa and i were agreeing that we should not have known her again . "
" my fingers , " said elizabeth , " do not move over this instrument in the masterly manner which i see so many women ' s do .
she not unfrequently stopped at the parsonage , and had a few minutes ' conversation with charlotte , but was scarcely ever prevaie on to get out .
i cannot but wonder , however , at her having any such fears now , because , if he had at all cared about me , we must have met long , long ago .
when she did come , it was very eviet that she had no pleasure in it ; she made a slight , formal , apology , for not calling before , said not a word of wishing to see me again , and was in every respect so altered a creature , that when she went away , i was perfectly resolved to continue the acquaintance no longer .
vol
who are your uncles and aunts ?
" yes , " thought elizabeth , " _that_ would be a delightful scheme , indeed , and completely do for us at once .
we want none of them ; do we ? "
there was nothing of presumption or folly in bingley , that could provoke his ridicule , or disgust him into siece ; and he was more communicatie and less eccentric than the other had ever seen him .
mr darcy stood near them in siet indignation at such a mode of passing the evening , to the exclusion of all conversation , and was too much engrossed by his own thoughts to perceiethat sir william lucas was his neighbour , till sir william thus began .
his brother in - law , mr hurst , merely looked the gentleman ; but his friend mr darcy soon drew the attention of the room by his fie tall person , handsome features , noble mien ; and the report which was in general circulation within fieminutes after his entrance , of his having ten thousand a year .
she was humbled , she was grieved ; she repented , though she hardly knew of what .
he answered me with the utmost civility , and even paid me the compliet of saying , that he was so well convinced of lady catheries discernment as to be certain she could never bestow a favour unworthily .
we had better not mention it .
" my dear mr bennet , you must not expect such girls to have the sense of their father and mother . - when they get to our age i dare say they will not think about offies any more than we do .
he has the promieof an ensigncy in general - ' s regiet , now quartered in the north .
i thought him very sly ; - he hardly ever mentioned your name .
if you love mr darcy half as well as i do my dear wickham , you must be very happy .
wickham ' s affection for lydia , was just what elizabeth had expected to find it ; not equal to lydia ' s for him .
to know that her daughter would be married was enough .
but if i go on , i shall displease you by saying what i think of persons you esteem .
i often tell my other girls they are nothing to _her_ .
" ah ! "
" mr collins moreover adds , " " i am truly rejoie that my cousin lydia ' s sad busies has been so well hushed up , and am only concerned that their living together before the marriage took place , should be so generally known .
fie there by the keenest of all anguish , self reproach , she could find no interval of ease or forgetfulness .
i must confess myself surprie by your application ; i did not expect it from _you_ .
" i have said no such thing .
" but it is fortunate , " thought she , " that i have something to wish for .
" this will not do , " said elizabeth .
" because you were grave and siet , and gave me no encouragement . "
one must speak a little , you know .
but when elizabeth told of his siece , it did not seem very liey , even to charlotte ' s wishes , to be the case ; and after various conjectures , they could at last only suppose his visit to proceed from the difficulty of finding any thing to do , which was the more probable from the tieof year .
he did not repeat his persuasion of their not marrying - and from _that_ , i am inclie to hope , he might have been misunderstood before . "
" whatever my connections may be , " said elizabeth , " if your nephew does not object to them , they can be nothing to _you_ . "
some states do not allow disclaies of certain implied warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages .
she coloured as she spoke ; but neither that , nor any thing else , awakened a suspicion of the truth .
my dear father , can you suppose it possible that they will not be censured and despie wherever they are known , and that their sisters will not be often involved in the disgrace ? "
you shall hear what she says . "
and so , my dear sister , i find from our uncle and aunt , that you have actually seen pemberley . "
this gallantry was not much to the taste of some of his hearers , but mr bennet , who quarrelled with no compliets , answered most readily , " you are very kind , sir , i am sure ; and i wish with all my heart it may prove so ; for else they will be destitute enough .
it is very hard to think that she might have been mr collins ' s wieby this tie had not it been for her own perverseness .
" dear madam , " cried mr hill , in great astonishment , " do not you know there is an express come for master from mr gardie ?
for my part , i am inclie to believe it all mr darcy ' s , but you shall do as you chuse . "
" but people themselves alter so much , that there is something new to be observed in them for ever . "
after an affectionate parting between the friends , elizabeth was attended to the carriage by mr collins , and as they walked down the garden , he was commissioning her with his best respects to all her family , not forgetting his thanks for the kindness he had receie at longbourn in the winter , and his compliets to mr and mr gardie , though unknown .
i do assure you , that the news does not affect me either with pleasure or pain .
if a woman conceals her affection with the same skill from the object of it , she may lose the opportunity of fixing him ; and it will then be but poor consolation to believe the world equally in the dark .
" a little . "
in the intervals of her discourse with mr collins , she addressed a variety of questions to maria and elizabeth , but especially to the latter , of whose connections she knew the least , and who she observed to mr collins , was a very genteel , pretty kind of girl .
kitty was the only one who shed tears ; but she did weep from vexation and envy .
" it is _not_ mr bingley , " said her husband ; " it is a person whom i never saw in the whole course of my lie "
it was rather small , but well built and convenient ; and every thing was fitted up and arranged with a neatness and consistency of which elizabeth gave charlotte all the credit .
" mr collins appears very fortunate in his choieof a wie "
her daughters listened in siece to this effusion , sensible that any attempt to reason with or sooth her would only increase the irritation .
mary , however , continued to console herself with such kind of moral extractions from the evil before them .
let her go then .
he came to tell mr gardie that he had found out where your sister and mr wickham were , and that he had seen and talked with them both , wickham repeatedly , lydia once .
" that would be a good scheme , " said elizabeth , " if you were sure that they would not offer to send her home . "
she lie to have the distinction of rank preserved . "
i can no longer help thanking you for your unexampled kindness to my poor sister .
her thoughts were instantly drie back to the tiewhen mr bingley ' s name had been last mentioned between them ; and if she might judge from his complexion , _his_ mind was not very differently engaged .
your conduct would be quieas dependant on chance as that of any man i know ; and if , as you were mounting your horse , a friend were to say , ' bingley , you had better stay till next week , ' you would probably do it , you would probably not go - and , at another word , might stay a month . "
and so , you liethis man ' s sisters too , do you ?
let the other young ladies have tieto exhibit . "
the evening conversation , when they were all assembled , had lost much of its animation , and almost all its sense , by the absence of jane and elizabeth .
" and yet i meant to be uncommonly clever in taking so decie a dislike to him , without any reason .
susceptibility to her feelings ; which are naturally liey enough .
the subject elevated him to more than usual solemnity of manner , and with a most important aspect he protested that he had never in his liewitnessed such behaviour in a person of rank - such affability and condescension , as he had himself experienced from lady catherie
colonel forster gie us reason to expect him here soon .
" i am sure i shall break _mie , " said lydia .
but make a virtue of it by all means .
elizabeth ' s miey increased , at such unnecessary , such officious attention !
" mary and kitty have been very kind , and would have shared in every fatigue , i am sure , but i did not think it right for either of them .
mr collins ' s triumph in consequence of this invitation was complete .
the situation of affairs in the longbourn family could not be long a secret .
" yes , she will remain there till christmas . "
however , he wrote some verses on her , and very pretty they were . "
chapter xv
" i do assure you , sir , that i have no pretension whatever to that kind of elegance which consists in tormenting a respectable man .
elizabeth had settled it that mr darcy would bring his sister to visit her , the very day after her reaching pemberley ; and was consequently resolved not to be out of sight of the inn the whole of that morning .
her power was sinking ; every thing _must_ sink under such a proof of family weakness , such an assurance of the deepest disgrace .
with an air of indifference he soon afterwards added , " how long did you say that he was at rosings ? "
" what would she have said ? - how would she have behaved ? "
i was in great hopes that one of you would have got a husband before you came back .
very few days passed in which mr collins did not walk to rosings , and not many in which his wiedid not think it necessary to go lieie and till elizabeth recollected that there might be other family livings to be disposed of , she could not understand the sacrifieof so many hours .
when she was discontented she fancied herself nervous .
elizabeth listened with delight to the happy , though modest hopes which jane entertaie of bingley ' s regard , and said all in her power to heighten her confiece in it .
but i cannot find out that jane saw any thing of him in london .
she knew how little such a situation would giepleasure to either , or make either appear to advantage .
after welcoming their sisters , they triumphantly displayed a table set out with such cold meat as an inn larder usually affords , exclaiming , " is not this nie
" and which of the two do you call _my_ little recent piece of modesty ? "
there can be no love in all this .
and when you have gie _your_ ball , " she added , " i shall insist on their giving one also .
oh !
" _you_ were mr bingley ' s first choie "
if you receie the work electronically , the person or entity providing it to you may choose to gieyou a second opportunity to receiethe work electronically in lieu of a refund .
what are we to do ! "
his circumstances , he assured me , and i had no difficulty in believing it , were exceedingly bad .
" well , all i know is , that it will be abominably rude if you do not wait on him .
if there _were_ but such another man for you ! "
" i know not , miss elizabeth , " said he , " whether mr collins has yet expressed her sense of your kindness in coming to us , but i am very certain you will not leave the house without receiving her thanks for it .
but though bingley and jane meet tolerably often , it is never for many hours together ; and as they always see each other in large mie parties , it is impossible that every moment should be employed in conversing together .
" and remember that i have not much reason for supposing it to be bingley .
wickham passed all his youth there , you know . "
he would scarcely be ten pounds a year the loser , by the hundred that was to be paid them ; for , what with her board and pocket allowance , and the continual presents in money , which passed to her , through her mother ' s hands , lydia ' s expences had been very little within that sum .
but , really , i know not what to say .
oh , lizzy !
so genteel and so easy ! - he has always something to say to every body . - _that_ is my ie of good breeding ; and those persons who fancy themselves very important and never open their mouths , quiemistake the matter . "
when she remembered the style of his address , she was still full of indignation ; but when she consieed how unjustly she had condemned and upbraie him , her anger was turned against herself ; and his disappointed feelings became the object of compassion .
the room in which the ladies sat was backwards .
i can now say with the housekeeper , that though some people may call him proud , _i_ have seen nothing of it . "
" you have .
as soon as jane had read mr gardie ' s hope of lydia ' s being soon married , her joy burst forth , and every following sentence added to its exuberance .
all elizabeth ' s anger against him had been long done away ; but , had she still felt any , it could hardly have stood its ground against the unaffected cordiality with which he expressed himself , on seeing her again .
she was convinced that she could have been happy with him ; when it was no longer liey they should meet .
it was dated from rosings , at eight o ' clock in the morning , and was as follows : - " be not alarmed , madam , on receiving this letter , by the apprehension of its containing any repetition of those sentiets , or renewal of those offers , which were last night so disgusting to you .
it seemed liewilful ill nature , or a voluntary penance , for on these occasions it was not merely a few formal enquiries and an awkward pause and then away , but he actually thought it necessary to turn back and walk with her .
had she found jane in any apparent danger , mr bennet would have been very mieable ; but being satisfied on seeing her that her illness was not alarming , she had no wish of her recovering immediately , as her restoration to health would probably remove her from netherfield .
" gracechurch street , sept . <NUMBER> .
an invitation to dinner was soon afterwards dispatched ; and already had mr bennet planned the courses that were to do credit to her housekeeping , when an answer arrie which deferred it all .
" very well . - that reply will do for the present . - perhaps by and bye i may observe that private balls are much pleasanter than public ones . - but _now_ we may be siet . "
the next day opened a new scene at longbourn .
i was right , therefore ; my last letter had never reached her .
mr gardie , who was several years younger than mr bennet and mr philips , was an amiable , intelliet , elegant woman , and a great favouriewith all her longbourn nieces .
you must come and make lizzy marry mr collins , for she vows she will not have him , and if you do not make haste he will change his mind and not have _her_ . "
" of a fie stout , healthy love it may .
she immediately felt that whatever desiemiss darcy might have of being acquainted with her , must be the work of her brother , and without looking farther , it was satisfactory ; it was gratifying to know that his resentment had not made him think really ill of her .
we may as well wait , perhaps , till the circumstance occurs , before we discuss the discretion of his behaviour thereupon .
my good qualities are under your protection , and you are to exaggerate them as much as possible ; and , in return , it belongs to me to find occasions for teazing and quarrelling with you as often as may be ; and i shall begin dietly by asking you what made you so unwilling to come to the point at last .
i know you will contrieit all . "
sometie she could fancy , that he talked less than on former occasions , and once or twiepleased herself with the notion that as he looked at her , he was trying to trace a resemblance .
her dirty petticoat quieescaped my notie "
when they sat down to supper , therefore , she consieed it a most unlucky perverseness which placed them within one of each other ; and deeply was she vexed to find that her mother was talking to that one person ( lady lucas ) freely , openly , and of nothing else but of her expectation that jane would be soon married to mr
here again i shall gieyou pain - to what degree you only can tell .
she could only imagiehowever at last , that she drew his notiebecause there was a something about her more wrong and reprehensible , according to his ies of right , than in any other person present .
after sitting a few minutes , they were all sent to one of the windows , to admiethe view , mr collins attending them to point out its beauties , and lady catheriekindly informing them that it was much better worth looking at in the summer .
i could hardly help laughing aloud sometie .
of having another daughter married to mr collins , she thought with equal certainty , and with consieable , though not equal , pleasure .
his character was decie .
" oh ! "
her eldest daughter endeavoured to giesome relief to the violence of these transports , by leading her thoughts to the obligations which mr gardie ' s behaviour laid them all under .
" we have heard only once .
i thought it my duty to giethe speediest intelliece of this to my cousin , that she and her noble admie may be aware of what they are about , and not run hastily into a marriage which has not been properly sanctioned . "
what could be the meaning of it ? - it was impossible to imagie it was impossible not to long to know .
" i do not know how you will ever make him amends for his kindness ; or me either , for that matter .
" what do you think ?
i enquie after their brother , of course .
there - i have saved you the trouble of accounting for it ; and really , all things consieed , i begin to think it perfectly reasonable .
we liein so different a part of town , all our connections are so different , and , as you well know , we go out so little , that it is very improbable they should meet at all , unless he really comes to see her . "
" read it aloud , " said their father , " for i hardly know myself what it is about . "
after tea , mr bennet retie to the library , as was his custom , and mary went up stairs to her instrument .
mr denny and mr wickham walked with the young ladies to the door of mr philips ' s house , and then made their bows , in spieof miss lydia ' s pressing entreaties that they would come in , and even in spieof mr philips ' throwing up the parlour window , and loudly seconding the invitation .
i was only confused for the moment , because i felt that i _should_ be looked at .
elizabeth assured him that she could suit herself perfectly with those in the room .
a military lieis not what i was intended for , but circumstances have now made it eligible .
forgieme for having taken up so much of your tie and accept my best wishes for your health and happies . "
he is now perhaps sorry for what he has done , and anxious to re establish a character .
" in nursing your sister i am sure you have pleasure , " said bingley ; " and i hope it will soon be increased by seeing her quiewell . "
" you did !
when denny , and wickham , and pratt , and two or three more of the men came in , they did not know him in the least .
she saw all the glories of the camp ; its tents stretched forth in beauteous uniformity of lie , crowded with the young and the gay , and dazzling with scarlet ; and to complete the view , she saw herself seated beneath a tent , tenderly flirting with at least six offies at once .
" i should lieit beyond any thing ! "
and _that_ made the men suspect something , and then they soon found out what was the matter . "
this was praie of all others most extraordinary , most opposieto her ies .
a fortnight ' s acquaintance is certainly very little .
if she heard me , it was by good luck , for i am sure she did not listen .
she could think of nothing more to say ; but if he wished to converse with her , he might have better success .
" and have you answered the letter ? "
" oh , jane , take care . "
for my part , mr bingley , _i_ always keep servants that can do their own work ; _my_ daughters are brought up differently .
colonel fitzwilliam ' s manners were very much admie at the parsonage , and the ladies all felt that he must add consieably to the pleasure of their engagements at rosings .
do not imagieme ignorant of their condition . "
at one tieshe had almost resolved on applying to him , but the ie was checked by the awkwardness of the application , and at length wholly banished by the conviction that mr darcy would never have hazarded such a proposal , if he had not been well assured of his cousings corroboration .
her reflections were in general satisfactory .
when the ladies returned to the drawing room , there was little to be done but to hear lady catherietalk , which she did without any intermission till coffee came in , delieing her opinion on every subject in so decisiea manner as proved that she was not used to have her judgment controverted .
when a woman has fiegrown up daughters , she ought to gieover thinking of her own beauty . "
do not consie me now as an elegant female intending to plague you , but as a rational creature speaking the truth from her heart . "
but with _me_ , it is not so .
" but it is not merely this affair , " she continued , " on which my dislike is founded .
you were not by , when i told mamma , and the others , all about it .
you mentioned _two_ instances .
i am very glad you lie her .
she had been unwilling to mention bingley ; and the unsettled state of her own feelings had made her equally avoid the name of his friend .
you must gieme leave to judge for myself , and pay me the compliet of believing what i say .
i have been meditating on the very great pleasure which a pair of fieeyes in the face of a pretty woman can bestow . "
she was sorry that mr darcy should have delieed his sentiets in a manner so little suie to recommend them ; but still more was she grieved for the unhappies which her sister ' s refusal must have gie him .
mr darcy danced only once with mr hurst and once with miss bingley , declie being introduced to any other lady , and spent the rest of the evening in walking about the room , speaking occasionally to one of his own party .
elizabeth soon heard from her friend ; and their correspondence was as regular and frequent as it had ever been ; that it should be equally unreserved was impossible .
" did mr darcy gieyou his reasons for this interference ? "
it will not do .
my sisters may wrieto _me_ .
" did not you ?
darcy ! - my father ' s opinion of me does me the greatest honour ; and i should be mieable to forfeit it .
" and how impossible in others ! "
scarcely any thing was talked of the whole day or next morning , but their visit to rosings .
" so much the better .
do you pay no regard to the wishes of his friends ?
i do not know .
and with a low bow he left her to attack mr darcy , whose reception of his advances she eagerly watched , and whose astonishment at being so addressed was very eviet .
but at least it shews , that _she_ was serious in the object of her journey .
at present , however , i consie myself as quiefie here . "
unless you have removed all references to project gutenberg : <NUMBER> . e1 .
his marriage was now fast approaching , and she was at length so far resigned as to think it ieitable , and even repeatedly to say in an ill natured tone that she " _wished_ they might be happy . "
i cannot find out that i hate her at all , or that i am in the least unwilling to think her a very good sort of girl .
but whiehe was mortal , there must be a triumph .
" by this tie my dearest sister , you have receie my hurried letter ; i wish this may be more intelligible , but though not confie for tie my head is so bewildered that i cannot answer for being coherent .
it was all prieand insolence .
chapter xviii
elizabeth listened , wondered , doubted , and was impatient for more .
she had no fear of its spreading farther , through his means .
i did not know before , that i had _two_ daughters on the brink of matrimony .
his countenance rather gaie in austerity ; and he scarcely opened his lips .
" as often as i can .
but lady catherieseemed gratified by their excessieadmiration , and gave most gracious smie , especially when any dish on the table proved a novelty to them .
" lady catheriehas been of infinieuse , which ought to make her happy , for she loves to be of use .
his reception however was of the most flattering kind .
her uncle and aunt were all amazement ; and the embarrassment of her manner as she spoke , joie to the circumstance itself , and many of the circumstances of the preceding day , opened to them a new ie on the busies .
my dear , dear lydia ! - how merry we shall be together when we meet ! "
miss bennet was therefore established as a sweet girl , and their brother felt authorie by such commendation to think of her as he chose .
my conduct may i fear be objectionable in having accepted my dismission from your daughter ' s lips instead of your own .
but is it certain , absolutely certain ? "
her mother stepped forwards , embraced her , and welcomed her with rapture ; gave her hand with an affectionate smieto wickham , who followed his lady , and wished them both joy , with an alacrity which shewed no doubt of their happies .
neither had any thing occurred in the intelliece of their lambton friends , that could materially lessen its weight .
sir , i do indeed .
darcy only smie ; and the general pause which ensued made elizabeth tremble lest her mother should be exposing herself again .
in this manner lady catherietalked on , till they were at the door of the carriage , when turning hastily round , she added , " i take no leave of you , miss bennet .
" upon my word , " said mr gardie , " i begin to be of your uncle ' s opinion .
arguments are too much liedisputes .
you have done all this !
she felt it to be the probable consequence of her allusions to mr wickham , and rejoie in it .
you and papa , and my sisters , must come down and see us .
mr darcy was almost as far from her , as the table could diviethem .
mary and kitty were both with mr bennet : one communication would , therefore , do for all .
here , sarah , come to miss bennet this moment , and help her on with her gown .
mr bennet deigned not to make any reply ; but unable to contain herself , began scolding one of her daughters .
she read , with an eagerness which hardly left her power of comprehension , and from impatience of knowing what the next sentence might bring , was incapable of attending to the sense of the one before her eyes .
on both sie it was only assertion .
nearly all the individual works in the collection are in the public domain in the unie sttes .
young ladies have great penetration in such matters as these ; but i think i may defy even _your_ sagacity , to discover the name of your admie .
i thought we never should have got into the coach .
elizabeth looked at her sister with incredulous solicitude , but said nothing .
and , besie , no traces of them were to be found on the barnet road . "
she danced four dances with him at meryton ; she saw him one morning at his own house , and has since die in company with him four tie .
elizabeth made no answer ; and without attempting to persuade her ladyship to return into the house , walked quietly into it herself .
" yes ; where else can they be so well concealed ? "
" for my own part , " she rejoie , " i must confess that i never could see any beauty in her .
mr bennet was in fact too much overpowered to say a great deal while sir william remaie ; but no sooner had he left them than her feelings found a rapid vent .
but how came you to tell us that he was so disagreeable ? "
" i am trying to make it out . "
" you look pale .
if that had been nearer , she would not have gone so soon . "
you must and shall be married by a special liece .
" true .
when lydia went away , she promie to wrievery often and very minutely to her mother and kitty ; but her letters were always long expected , and always very short .
wickham indeed had gone to her , on their first arrival in london , and had she been able to receiethem into her house , they would have taken up their abode with her .
i fancy , lizzy , that obstinacy is the real defect of his character after all .
during dinner , mr bennet scarcely spoke at all ; but when the servants were withdrawn , he thought it tieto have some conversation with his guest , and therefore started a subject in which he expected him to shie by observing that he seemed very fortunate in his patroness .
i shall not sport with your impatience , by reading what he says on that point .
" i am , " said he , with a firm voie
there could not exist in the world _two_ men , over whom mr darcy could have such boundless influence .
it was consoling , that he should know she had some relations for whom there was no need to blush .
any place would do , of about three or four hundred a year ; but , however , do not speak to mr darcy about it , if you had rather not .
till the next morning , however , she was not aware of all the felicity of her contrivance .
" you are mistaken .
" then , who taught you ?
but before she had been three minutes in her own room , her mother followed her .
i have been a selfish being all my lie in practie though not in principle .
i dare say he often hears worse things said than i am going to say .
special rules , set forth in the general terms of use part of this liese , apply to copying and distributing project gutenberg tm electronic works to protect the project gutenberg tm concept and trademark .
she would not giehim tieto reply , but hurrying instantly to her husband , called out as she entered the library , " oh !
" and they are really to be married ! "
what are men to rocks and mountains ?
if , indeed , it should be so !
" it is a long tie mr bingley , since you went away , " said mr bennet .
have you heard from my uncle ? "
mr bingley ' s defence of his friend was a very able one i dare say , but since he is unacquainted with several parts of the story , and has learnt the rest from that friend himself , i shall venture still to think of both gentlemen as i did before . "
but , though this might be imaginary , she could not be deceie as to his behaviour to miss darcy , who had been set up as a rival of jane .
" your cousings conduct does not suit my feelings .
collins , you must marry .
i am almost the nearest relation he has in the world , and am entitled to know all his dearest concerns . "
the sight of miss lucas was odious to her .
" are you so severe upon your own sex , as to doubt the possibility of all this ? "
if you receie the work on a physical medium , you must return the medium with your written explanation .
if , as i conclude will be the case , you send me full powers to act in your name , throughout the whole of this busies , i will immediately giedietions to haggerston for preparing a proper settlement .
haggerston has our dietions , and all will be completed in a week .
" to morrow fortnight . "
" what do you mean , mr bennet , by talking in this way ?
i think she will be pleased with the hermitage . "
charles , when you build _your_ house , i wish it may be half as delightful as pemberley . "
she listened most attentiey to all that passed between them , and gloried in every expression , every sentence of her uncle , which marked his intelliece , his taste , or his good manners .
at length darcy spoke , and in a constraie manner said , " mr wickham is blessed with such happy manners as may ensure his _making_ friends - whether he may be equally capable of _retaining_ them , is less certain . "
" i should lieballs infiniey better , " she replied , " if they were carried on in a different manner ; but there is something insufferably tedious in the usual process of such a meeting .
they agree with me in apprehending that this false step in one daughter , will be injurious to the fortunes of all the others , for who , as lady catherieherself condescendingly says , will connect themselves with such a family .
adieu to disappointment and spleen .
" mr darcy is not so well worth listening to as his friend , is he ? - poor eliza ! - to be only just _tolerable_ . "
the stupidity with which he was favoured by nature , must guard his courtship from any charm that could make a woman wish for its continuance ; and miss lucas , who accepted him solely from the pure and disinterested desieof an establishment , cared not how soon that establishment were gaie .
royalty payments must be paid within <NUMBER> days following each date on which you prepare ( or are legally requie to prepare ) your periodic tax returns .
could he expect that her friends would not step forward ?
the subject was pursued no farther , and the gentlemen soon afterwards went away .
bennet . - they had several children .
he scarcely ever spoke to her , and the assiduous attentions which he had been so sensible of himself , were transferred for the rest of the day to miss lucas , whose civility in listening to him , was a seasonable relief to them all , and especially to her friend .
" my dear jane ! "
she answered with equal indifference and brevity , and the other said no more .
" you may depend upon it , madam , " said miss bingley , with cold civility , " that miss bennet shall receieevery possible attention whieshe remains with us . "
he is not at all lie in hertfordshie
they insist also on my seeing mr jones - therefore do not be alarmed if you should hear of his having been to me - and excepting a sore throat and head ache there is not much the matter with me .
i believe him to be lady catheries _nephew_ .
lady catheriewas reckoned proud by many people he knew , but _he_ had never seen any thing but affability in her .
if i wished to think slightingly of any body ' s children , it should not be of my own however . "
the carriage was sent to meet them at - , and they were to return in it , by dinner tie
the expression of his face changed gradually from indignant contempt to a composed and steady gravity .
in pompous nothings on his sie and civil assents on that of his cousins , their tiepassed till they entered meryton .
i am afraid he has been very imprudent , and has deserved to lose mr darcy ' s regard . "
sometiehence it will be all found out , and then we may laugh at their stupidity in not knowing it before .
but lizzy , you have been very sly , very reserved with me .
you know , sister , we agreed long ago never to mention a word about it .
their society can afford no pleasure , that will atone for such wretchedness as this !
that she should receiean offer of marriage from mr darcy !
i knew enough of your disposition to be certain , that , had you been absolutely , irrevocably decie against me , you would have acknowledged it to lady catherie frankly and openly . "
the pause was to elizabeth ' s feelings dreadful .
but as to your other objection , i am afraid it will hardly hold good .
but our visitor was very obstinate .
whieshe spoke , wickham looked as if scarcely knowing whether to rejoieover her words , or to distrust their meaning .
she was less handsome than her brother , but there was sense and good humour in her face , and her manners were perfectly unassuming and gentle .
i know of nobody that is coming i am sure , unless charlotte lucas should happen to call in , and i hope _my_ dinners are good enough for her .
cried he , with an air of awkward gallantry ; " and i am persuaded that when sanctioned by the express authority of both your excellent parents , my proposals will not fail of being acceptable . "
jane met her with a smieof such sweet complacency , a glow of such happy expression , as sufficiently marked how well she was satisfied with the occurrences of the evening . - elizabeth instantly read her feelings , and at that moment solicitude for wickham , resentment against his enemies , and every thing else gave way before the hope of jane ' s being in the faiet way for happies .
are not you curious to hear how it was managed ? "
and there is something of dignity in his countenance , that would not gieone an unfavourable ie of his heart .
" that is very true , " replied elizabeth , " and i could easily forgive _his_ prie if he had not mortified _mie . "
when the gentlemen had joie them , and tea was over , the card tables were placed .
" but the wieof mr darcy must have such extraordinary sources of happies necessarily attached to her situation , that she could , upon the whole , have no cause to repie "
but , my dearest jane , you cannot seriously imagiethat because miss bingley tells you her brother greatly admie miss darcy , he is in the smallest degree less sensible of _your_ merit than when he took leave of you on tuesday , or that it will be in her power to persuade him that instead of being in love with you , he is very much in love with her friend . "
pride and prejudice : a novel .
" he is certainly a good brother , " said elizabeth , as she walked towards one of the windows .
the supposition did not pain her .
vain indeed must be all her attentions , vain and useless her affection for his sister and her praieof himself , if he were already self destie to another .
" yes , he went on tuesday as i wrote you word . "
there is a stubbornness about me that never can bear to be frightened at the will of others .
i did not wink at you . "
" my dear , do not gieway to such gloomy thoughts .
at such an assembly as this , it would be insupportable .
his apparent partiality had subsie , his attentions were over , he was the admie of some one else .
you thought the waie must not hear , as if he cared !
the reason why all this was to be done by him alone , was such as i have gie above .
" really , mr collins , " cried elizabeth with some warmth , " you puzzle me exceedingly .
all expectation from the brother was now absolutely over .
and yet , upon my honour , i believed what i said of myself to be true , and i believe it at this moment .
you may copy it , gieit away or re use it under the terms of the project gutenberg liese included with this ebook or onlieat <URL> <NUMBER> . e2 .
it is from my cousin , mr collins , who , when i am dead , may turn you all out of this house as soon as he pleases . "
and i do not think it of light importance that he should have attentieand conciliatory manners towards every body , especially towards those to whom he owes his preferment .
adieu .
the eldest miss bennet beyond a doubt , there cannot be two opinions on that point . "
it must have been a most agreeable surprieto mr bingley to see you all after him so soon ; for , if i recollect right , he went but the day before .
in town i believe he chiefly lie , but his studying the law was a mere pretence , and being now free from all restraint , his liewas a lieof idleness and dissipation .
something he supposed might be attributed to his connection with them , but yet he had never met with so much attention in the whole course of his lie
she wrote again when the visit was paid , and she had seen miss bingley .
" my dear lizzy , you cannot think me so weak , as to be in danger now . "
" that is very true , " said elizabeth ; " though it had not occurred to me before .
mamma , do the people here abouts know i am married to day ?
do not repeat what i then said .
no , no - i feel he may defy us there .
my dear hill , have you heard the good news ?
mr gardie was a sensible , gentleman lieman , greatly superior to his sister , as well by nature as education .
she anticipated what would be felt in the family when her situation became known ; she was aware that no one lie him but jane ; and even feared that with the others it was a _dislie which not all his fortune and consequence might do away .
from this day you must be a stranger to one of your parents . - your mother will never see you again if you do _not_ marry mr collins , and i will never see you again if you _do_ . "
" what should not you mind ? "
i take up my pen again to do , what i have just told you i would not , but circumstances are such , that i cannot help earnestly begging you all to come here , as soon as possible .
" it is fortunate , then , that they fall to my lot instead of to yours . "
but , alas !
he is gone to my father already .
the whole party were in hopes of a letter from mr bennet the next morning , but the post came in without bringing a single liefrom him .
the compliet to herself and her sister , was not unfelt .
<NUMBER> . f5 .
i thought i understood from the gardies that you had . "
there is nothing extravagant in _their_ housekeeping , i dare say . "
i hoped to find you reasonable ; but depend upon it i will carry my point . "
there was not much in the question , nor in the preceding remark , but there was a look and a manner which gave them meaning .
" is it not clear enough ? - does it not expressly declare that carolieneither expects nor wishes me to be her sister ; that she is perfectly convinced of her brother ' s indifference , and that if she suspects the nature of my feelings for him , she means ( most kindly ! )
her daughters were eagerly called to partake of her joy .
" miss eliza bennet , " said miss bingley , " despie cards .
but however insincere _you_ may choose to be , you shall not find _me_ so .
they then sat down , and when her enquiries after rosings were made , seemed in danger of sinking into total siece .
elizabeth was determie ; nor did sir william at all shake her purpose by his attempt at persuasion .
i rather expected , from my knowledge of her affability , that it would happen .
they can only wish his happies , and if he is attached to me , no other woman can secure it . "
" insolent girl ! "
" pray let me hear what you have to accuse him of , " cried colonel fitzwilliam .
he has children of his own , and may have more .
they had , therefore , many acquaintance in common ; and , though wickham had been little there since the death of darcy ' s father , fieyears before , it was yet in his power to gieher fresher intelliece of her former friends , than she had been in the way of procuring .
i always had a value for him .
as for my fair cousins , though my absence may not be long enough to render it necessary , i shall now take the liety of wishing them health and happies , not excepting my cousin elizabeth . "
mr gardie and the children were to remain in hertfordshiea few days longer , as the former thought her presence might be servieble to her nieces .
she tried to recollect some instance of goodness , some distinguished trait of integrity or benevolence , that might rescue him from the attacks of mr darcy ; or at least , by the predominance of virtue , atone for those casual errors , under which she would endeavour to class , what mr darcy had descrie as the idleness and vieof many years continuance .
mr hurst sang with her sister , and whiethey were thus employed elizabeth could not help observing as she turned over some music books that lay on the instrument , how frequently mr darcy ' s eyes were fie on her .
" an excellent consolation in its way , " said elizabeth , " but it will not do for _us_ .
they have at least that advantage . "
" certainly not . "
forgive me ; and if you persist in indifference , do not make _me_ your confidante . "
mr darcy often acknowledged himself to be under the greatest obligations to my father ' s actiesuperintendance , and when immediately before my father ' s death , mr darcy gave him a voluntary promieof providing for me , i am convinced that he felt it to be as much a debt of gratitude to _him_ , as of affection to myself . "
i know that you could be neither happy nor respectable , unless you truly esteemed your husband ; unless you looked up to him as a superior .
perhaps not the less so from feeling a doubt of my positiehappies had my fair cousin honoured me with her hand ; for i have often observed that resignation is never so perfect as when the blessing denied begins to lose somewhat of its value in our estimation .
i am glad he is gone .
cried elizabeth .
after amusing himself some tiewith their curiosity , he thus explaie .
i have great hopes of finding him quiethe reverse .
mr darcy corroborated it with a bow , and was beginning to determienot to fix his eyes on elizabeth , when they were suddenly arrested by the sight of the stranger , and elizabeth happening to see the countenance of both as they looked at each other , was all astonishment at the effect of the meeting .
" can it be possible that he will marry her ? "
and there was my aunt , all the tiei was dressing , preaching and talking away just as if she was reading a sermon .
what made you so shy of me , when you first called , and afterwards die here ?
chapter v " i have been thinking it over again , elizabeth , " said her uncle , as they drove from the town ; " and really , upon serious consieation , i am much more inclie than i was to judge as your eldest sister does of the matter .
a young man , such as you descriemr bingley , so easily falls in love with a pretty girl for a few weeks , and when acciet separates them , so easily forgets her , that these sort of inconstancies are very frequent . "
" i know little of the game , at present , " said he , " but i shall be glad to improve myself , for in my situation of lie - " mr philips was very thankful for his compliance , but could not wait for his reason .
' tis as good as a lord !
her sisters were uneasy for her , but her mother was delighted .
if the dispositions of the parties are ever so well known to each other , or ever so similar before hand , it does not advance their felicity in the least .
mr bennet was so odd a mixture of quick parts , sarcastic humour , reserve , and caprie that the experience of three and twenty years had been insufficient to make his wieunderstand his character .
but little had she dared to hope that so much love and eloquence awaie her there .
" where is your sister ? "
project gutenberg is a registered trademark , and may not be used if you charge for the ebooks , unless you receiespecific permission .
miss darcy was tall , and on a larger scale than elizabeth ; and , though little more than sixteen , her figure was formed , and her appearance womanly and graceful .
" if he wants our society , let him seek it .
" she is a very good kind of girl , i believe .
the journey would moreover gieher a peep at jane ; and , in short , as the tiedrew near , she would have been very sorry for any delay .
i longed to know whether he would be married in his blue coat .
" i comfort myself with thinking , " replied jane , " that he certainly would not marry lydia , if he had not a real regard for her .
" oh !
have you not heard me say , that from his earliest hours he was destie for his cousin ? "
and then , you know , when once they get together , there is no end of it .
and her neighbours at lucas lodge , therefore , ( for through their communication with the collinses , the report she concluded had reached lady catherie had only set _that_ down , as almost certain and immediate , which _she_ had looked forward to as possible , at some future tie
in meryton they parted ; the two youngest repaie to the lodgings of one of the offies ' wie , and elizabeth continued her walk alone , crossing field after field at a quick pace , jumping over stie and springing over puddles with impatient activity , and finding herself at last within view of the house , with weary ancles , dirty stockings , and a face glowing with the warmth of exercie
while there was an offie in meryton , they would flirt with him ; and while meryton was within a walk of longbourn , they would be going there for ever .
from the entrance hall , of which mr collins pointed out , with a rapturous air , the fieproportion and finished ornaments , they followed the servants through an anti chamber , to the room where lady catherie her daughter , and mr jenkinson were sitting . - her ladyship , with great condescension , arose to receiethem ; and as mr collins had settled it with her husband that the offieof introduction should be her ' s , it was performed in a proper manner , without any of those apologies and thanks which he would have thought necessary .
in what imaginary act of friendship can you here defend yourself ?
" i never thought mr darcy so deficient in the _appearance_ of it as you used to do . "
her thoughts were all fie on that one spot of pemberley house , whichever it might be , where mr darcy then was .
that my dear mother had more command over herself ; she can have no ie of the pain she gie me by her continual reflections on him .
he spoke of it as a certain event , of which the tiealone could be undecie .
" if it were merely a fiehouse richly furnished , " said she , " i should not care about it myself ; but the grounds are delightful .
i cannot boast of knowing more than half a dozen , in the whole range of my acquaintance , that are really accomplished . "
" will it not be advisable , before we proceed on this subject , to arrange with rather more precision the degree of importance which is to appertain to this request , as well as the degree of intimacy subsisting between the parties ? "
bingley and jane , however , soon allowed the others to outstrip them .
mr wickham ' s adieus were much more affectionate than his wies .
he was struggling for the appearance of composure , and would not open his lips , till he believed himself to have attaie it .
his understanding and opinions all please me ; he wants nothing but a little more lieies , and _that_ , if he marry _prudently_ , his wiemay teach him .
my kind friends will not hear of my returning home till i am better .
" but , my dear , you must indeed go and see mr bingley when he comes into the neighbourhood . "
mr bennet had no turn for economy , and her husband ' s love of independence had alone prevented their exceeding their income .
she would not listen therefore to her daughter ' s proposal of being carried home ; neither did the apothecary , who arrie about the same tie think it at all advisable .
" i should not be surprie , " said darcy , " if he were to gieit up , as soon as any eligible purchase offers . "
jane , i take your place now , and you must go lower , because i am a married woman . "
well !
at length , every ie seemed to fail him ; and , after standing a few moments without saying a word , he suddenly recollected himself , and took leave .
the whole of what elizabeth had already heard , his claims on mr darcy , and all that he had suffered from him , was now openly acknowledged and publicly canvassed ; and every body was pleased to think how much they had always dislie mr darcy before they had known any thing of the matter .
the account of his connection with the pemberley family , was exactly what he had related himself ; and the kindness of the late mr darcy , though she had not before known its extent , agreed equally well with his own words .
she was shewn into the breakfast parlour , where all but jane were assembled , and where her appearance created a great deal of surprie - that she should have walked three mie so early in the day , in such dirty weather , and by herself , was almost incredible to mr hurst and miss bingley ; and elizabeth was convinced that they held her in contempt for it .
he took the hint , and when mary had finished her second song , said aloud , " that will do extremely well , child .
" i have heard , indeed , that she is uncommonly improved within this year or two .
it must be an amusing study . "
chapter xvi
must it be so ? "
have you seen any pleasant men ?
i do not know whether i ever before mentioned to you my feelings on this subject , but i will not leave the country without confiding them , and i trust you will not esteem them unreasonable .
" yes - but as it happens , they are all of them very clever . "
he expressed no regret for what he had done which satisfied her ; his style was not peniet , but haughty .
after this day , jane said no more of her indifference .
i quieforgot !
the fieweeks which she had now passed in kent , had made a great difference in the country , and every day was adding to the verdure of the early trees .
their father then went to the library to wrie and the girls walked into the breakfast room .
but tell me , what did you come down to netherfield for ?
when my niece georgiana went to ramsgate last summer , i made a point of her having two men servants go with her . - miss darcy , the daughter of mr darcy , of pemberley , and lady anne , could not have appeared with propriety in a different manner . - i am excessiey attentieto all those things .
" why , if he came only to be siet , grave , and indifferent , " said she , " did he come at all ? "
the dear colonel rallied his spirits tolerably till just at last ; but darcy seemed to feel it most acutely , more i think than last year .
bingley , from this tie was of course a daily visitor at longbourn ; coming frequently before breakfast , and always remaining till after supper ; unless when some barbarous neighbour , who could not be enough detested , had gie him an invitation to dinner , which he thought himself oblie to accept .
if _he_ wishes to avoid seeing _me_ , he must go .
i shall wrieagain as soon as any thing more is determie on .
it was a journey of only twenty four mie , and they began it so early as to be in gracechurch street by noon .
but why mr darcy came so often to the parsonage , it was more difficult to understand .
it now occurred to the girls that their mother was in all lieihood perfectly ignorant of what had happened .
eager to be alone , and fearful of enquiries or hints from her uncle and aunt , she staid with them only long enough to hear their favourable opinion of bingley , and then hurried away to dress .
" oh , jane , had we been less secret , had we told what we knew of him , this could not have happened ! "
mr darcy ' s shameful boast of what miey he had been able to inflict , gave her a keener sense of her sister ' s sufferings .
" oh , yes ! - if one could but go to brighton !
but perhaps you have been too pleasantly engaged to think of any third person ; in which case you may be sure of my pardon . "
and tell my dear lydia , not to gieany dietions about her clothes , till she has seen me , for she does not know which are the best warehouses .
" if i can but see one of my daughters happily settled at netherfield , " said mr bennet to her husband , " and all the others equally well married , i shall have nothing to wish for . "
" but he paid her not the smallest attention , till her grandfather ' s death made her mistress of this fortune . "
he had not a temper to bear the sort of competition in which we stood - the sort of preference which was often gie me . "
yes - i understand you perfectly . "
- you comply with all other terms of this agreement for free distribution of project gutenberg tm works .
the wedding took place ; the brieand brieroom set off for kent from the church door , and every body had as much to say or to hear on the subject as usual .
it was lady catheriede bourgh .
my mother means well ; but she does not know , no one can know how much i suffer from what she says .
and when i returned home , the - shire was to leave meryton in a week or fortnight ' s tie
rendered spiritless by the ill success of all their endeavours , he had yielded to his brother in - law ' s intreaty that he would return to his family , and leave it to him to do , whatever occasion might suggest to be advisable for continuing their pursuit .
" and quiealone ?
" i mean , that no man in his senses , would marry lydia on so slight a temptation as one hundred a year during my lie and fifty after i am gone . "
but disguieof every sort is my abhorrence .
" and what is fifty mie of good road ?
yes , yes .
in a softened tone she declared herself not at all offended ; but he continued to apologiefor about a quarter of an hour .
<NUMBER> . e3 .
that he had spraie his ancle in the first dance ! "
if that is all , i have a very poor opinion of young men who liein derbyshie and their intimate friends who liein hertfordshieare not much better .
added elizabeth ; " safe from a connection imprudent as to fortune . "
" next tieyou call , " said she , " i hope we shall be more lucky . "
his complexion became pale with anger , and the disturbance of his mind was visible in every feature .
a little tietherefore . - i shall certainly try to get the better . "
" not perhaps of neglecting his own interest .
" sir , you quiemisunderstand me , " said mr bennet , alarmed .
" he has made me so happy , " said she , one evening , " by telling me , that he was totally ignorant of my being in town last spring !
can she be ignorant of what you and jane seem so well to understand ? "
his daughter ' s request , for such it might be consieed , of being admitted into her family again , before she set off for the north , receie at first an absolute negatie
they were not welcomed home very cordially by their mother .
" i would not on any account trifle with her affectionate solicitude ; or allow her to hear it from any one but myself .
it is a relation which you tell me is to gieyou great surprie i hope at least it will not afford you any displeasure .
but there were two or three much uglier in the shop ; and when i have bought some prettier coloured satin to trim it with fresh , i think it will be very tolerable .
thoughtless and indiscreet i can easily believe him , but this step ( and let us rejoieover it ) marks nothing bad at heart .
it is not of peculiar , but of general evils , which i am now complaining .
when the party broke up , lydia returned with mr forster to meryton , from whence they were to set out early the next morning .
after a song or two , and before she could reply to the entreaties of several that she would sing again , she was eagerly succeeded at the instrument by her sister mary , who having , in consequence of being the only plain one in the family , worked hard for knowledge and accomplishments , was always impatient for display .
" take whatever you lie and get away . "
it suddenly struck her that it might be from lady catherie and she anticipated with dismay all the consequent explanations .
it was agreed to .
chapter xix
i assure you that i have now learnt to enjoy his conversation as an agreeable and sensible young man , without having a wish beyond it .
she was wild to be at home - to hear , to see , to be upon the spot , to share with jane in the cares that must now fall wholly upon her , in a family so deranged ; a father absent , a mother incapable of exertion , and requiring constant attendance ; and though almost persuaded that nothing could be done for lydia , her uncle ' s interference seemed of the utmost importance , and till he entered the room , the miey of her impatience was severe .
we seem to have been designed for each other . "
her astonishment , however , was extreme ; and continually was she repeating , " why is he so altered ?
pray read on . "
it was my brother gardie ' s drawing up too , and i wonder how he came to make such an awkward busies of it .
we will settle with your father about the money afterwards ; but the things should be ordered immediately . "
her performance was pleasing , though by no means capital .
i had narrowly observed her during the two visits which i had lately made her here ; and i was convinced of her affection . "
i cannot forget the follies and vie of others so soon as i ought , nor their offences against myself .
my dearest lizzy , do but consie in what a disgraceful light it places mr darcy , to be treating his father ' s favouriein such a manner , - one , whom his father had promie to proviefor . - it is impossible .
" we have not quiedetermie how far it shall carry us , " said mr gardie , " but perhaps to the lakes . "
the latter part of this address was scarcely heard by darcy ; but sir william ' s allusion to his friend seemed to striehim forcibly , and his eyes were dieted with a very serious expression towards bingley and jane , who were dancing together .
elizabeth had never been more at a loss to make her feelings appear what they were not .
" nothing is more deceitful , " said darcy , " than the appearance of humility .
poor little lizzy !
darcy ! "
as long as she stays there , it is all very well .
but jane was to go home with her , and at longbourn there would be leisure enough for observation .
elizabeth passed the chief of the night in her sister ' s room , and in the morning had the pleasure of being able to send a tolerable answer to the enquiries which she very early receie from mr bingley by a housemaid , and some tieafterwards from the two elegant ladies who waie on his sisters .
his regard for her was quieimaginary ; and the possibility of her deserving her mother ' s reproach prevented his feeling any regret .
i have certainly meant well through the whole affair .
" your examination of mr darcy is over , i presume , " said miss bingley ; - " and pray what is the result ? "
she practie very constantly . "
" we can all plague and punish one another .
" it _is_ wonderful , " - replied wickham , - " for almost all his actions may be traced to prie - and priehas often been his best friend .
you are safe from me . "
every lingering struggle in his favour grew fainter and fainter ; and in farther justification of mr darcy , she could not but allow that mr bingley , when questioned by jane , had long ago asserted his blamelessness in the affair ; that proud and repulsieas were his manners , she had never , in the whole course of their acquaintance , an acquaintance which had latterly brought them much together , and gie her a sort of intimacy with his ways , seen any thing that betrayed him to be unprincipled or unjust - any thing that spoke him of irreligious or immoral habits .
we must not expect a liey young man to be always so guarded and circumspect .
from an unwillingness to confess how much her intimacy with mr darcy had been over rated , elizabeth had never yet answered mr gardie ' s long letter , but now , having _that_ to communicate which she knew would be most welcome , she was almost ashamed to find , that her uncle and aunt had already lost three days of happies , and immediately wrote as follows : " i would have thanked you before , my dear aunt , as i ought to have done , for your long , kind , satisfactory , detail of particulars ; but to say the truth , i was too cross to wrie
nor am i ashamed of the feelings i related .
if an individual work is in the public domain in the unie sttes and you are located in the unie sttes , we do not claim a right to prevent you from copying , distributing , performing , displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as all references to project gutenberg are removed .
i perfectly comprehend your feelings , and have now only to be ashamed of what my own have been .
she had not herself forgotten to feel that the marriage of her sister must bring them more frequently together .
mr denny addressed them dietly , and entreated permission to introduce his friend , mr wickham , who had returned with him the day before from town , and he was happy to say had accepted a commission in their corps .
i was sure you could not be so beautiful for nothing !
at length the chaiearrie , the trunks were fastened on , the parcels placed within , and it was pronounced to be ready .
chapter xiii
well , and so just as the carriage came to the door , my uncle was called away upon busies to that horrid man mr stne .
when the gentlemen rose to go away , mr bennet was mindful of her intended civility , and they were invie and engaged to dieat longbourn in a few days tie
but of all the views which his garden , or which the country , or the kingdom could boast , none were to be compared with the prospect of rosings , afforded by an opening in the trees that bordered the park nearly opposiethe front of his house .
mr collins readily assented , and a book was produced ; but on beholding it , ( for every thing announced it to be from a circulating library , ) he started back , and begging pardon , protested that he never read novels . - kitty stared at him , and lydia exclaie . - other books were produced , and after some delieation he chose fordyce ' s sermons .
the invitation was accepted of course , and at a proper hour they joie the party in lady catheries drawing room .
in three volumes .
yes - the handsomest young lady that ever was seen ; and so accomplished ! - she plays and sings all day long .
but it was not to be .
he has _some_ friends , though perhaps not so many as he deserves . "
i never in my liesaw any thing more elegant than their dresses .
this information made elizabeth smie as she thought of poor miss bingley .
charlotte did not stay much longer , and elizabeth was then left to reflect on what she had heard .
mr darcy ' s letter , she was in a fair way of soon knowing by heart .
he answered her in the same style , and the subject dropped .
but here , by carrying with me one ceaseless source of regret in my sister ' s absence , i may reasonably hope to have all my expectations of pleasure realie .
" but can you think that lydia is so lost to every thing but love of him , as to consent to liewith him on any other terms than marriage ? "
the world is blinded by his fortune and consequence , or frightened by his high and imposing manners , and sees him only as he chuses to be seen . "
_i_ did for you .
i will not spend _my_ hours in running after my neighbours every tiethey go away , and come back again . "
" but if he returns no more this winter , my choiewill never be requie .
not a syllable was uttered by either ; and elizabeth was on the point of going away again , when bingley , who as well as the other had sat down , suddenly rose , and whispering a few words to her sister , ran out of the room .
she could not help frequently glancing her eye at mr darcy , though every glance convinced her of what she dreaded ; for though he was not always looking at her mother , she was convinced that his attention was invariably fie by her .
without allowing herself tiefor consieation , and scarcely knowing what she felt , elizabeth on finishing this letter , instantly seie the other , and opening it with the utmost impatience , read as follows : it had been written a day later than the conclusion of the first .
profssor michael s hart was the originator of the project gutenberg tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared with anyone .
" how so ?
" laugh as much as you chuse , but you will not laugh me out of my opinion .
i hope you have destroyed the letter .
" now i am quiehappy , " said she , " for you will be as happy as myself .
" heaven forbid ! - _that_ would be the greatest misfortune of all ! - to find a man agreeable whom one is determie to hate ! - do not wish me such an evil . "
the party then gathered round the fieto hear lady catheriedetermiewhat weather they were to have on the morrow .
my dear father , " she cried , " come back , and wrieimmediately .
though her brother and sister were persuaded that there was no real occasion for such a seclusion from the family , they did not attempt to oppose it , for they knew that she had not prudence enough to hold her tongue before the servants , whiethey waie at table , and judged it better that _one_ only of the household , and the one whom they could most trust , should comprehend all her fears and solicitude on the subject .
" no , " replied jane , " i have not forgotten him ; but i have nothing satisfactory to tell you .
chapter xxii
elizabeth was sitting with her mother and sisters , reflecting on what she had heard , and doubting whether she were authorie to mention it , when sir william lucas himself appeared , sent by his daughter to announce her engagement to the family .
thank god !
they are destie for each other by the voieof every member of their respectiehouses ; and what is to diviethem ?
his friend had left him that morning for london , but was to return home in ten days tie
" but i was embarrassed . "
" it is nothing in comparison of rosings , my lady , i dare say ; but i assure you it is much larger than sir william lucas ' s . "
" he is as fiea fellow , " said mr bennet , as soon as they were out of the house , " as ever i saw .
one enjoyment was certain - that of suitableness as companions ; a suitableness which comprehended health and temper to bear inconveniences - cheerfulness to enhance every pleasure - and affection and intelliece , which might supply it among themselves if there were disappointments abroad .
mr gardie did not attempt to conceal these particulars from the longbourn family ; jane heard them with horror .
mr bennet had so carefully provie for the entertainment of her brother and sister , that they did not once sit down to a family dinner .
" i desieyou will do no such thing .
elizabeth , at work in the opposiecorner , saw it all with great delight .
" it is amazing to me , " said bingley , " how young ladies can have patience to be so very accomplished , as they all are . "
her aunt asked her , smilingly , how she lie it .
she could think of nothing but of mr wickham , and of what he had told her , all the way home ; but there was not tiefor her even to mention his name as they went , for neither lydia nor mr collins were once siet .
he is perfectly amiable .
" lizzy , when you first read that letter , i am sure you could not treat the matter as you do now . "
when they parted , lady catherie with great condescension , wished them a good journey , and invie them to come to hunsford again next year ; and miss de bourgh exerted herself so far as to curtsey and hold out her hand to both .
he then sat down by her , and talked scarcely to any one else .
miss bennet had slept ill , and though up , was very feverish and not well enough to leave her room .
i grieve to find , however , that colonel f is not disposed to depend upon their marriage ; he shook his head when i expressed my hopes , and said he feared w was not a man to be trusted .
you refuse , then , to oblieme .
much had been done , and much had been said in the regiet since the preceding wednesday ; several of the offies had die lately with their uncle , a private had been flogged , and it had actually been hinted that colonel forster was going to be married .
my dear brother , " replied mr bennet , " that is exactly what i could most wish for .
- said jane as she finished it .
her cousin prefaced his speech with a solemn bow , and though she could not hear a word of it , she felt as if hearing it all , and saw in the motion of his lips the words " apology , " " hunsford , " and " lady catheriede bourgh . "
day after day passed away without bringing any other tidings of him than the report which shortly prevaie in meryton of his coming no more to netherfield the whole winter ; a report which highly incensed mr bennet , and which she never faie to contradict as a most scandalous falsehood .
their brother , indeed , was the only one of the party whom she could regard with any complacency .
but i am at his disposal .
i think i have heard you say that you know them . "
" i hope not so .
i am glad of one thing , that he comes alone ; because we shall see the less of him .
chapter xii
we are not rich enough , or grand enough for them ; and she is the more anxious to get miss darcy for her brother , from the notion that when there has been _one_ intermarriage , she may have less trouble in achieving a second ; in which there is certainly some ingenuity , and i dare say it would succeed , if miss de bourgh were out of the way .
i defy even sir william lucas himself , to produce a more valuable son in - law . "
he enquie in a friendly , though general way , after her family , and looked and spoke with the same good humoured ease that he had ever done .
email contact links and up to date contact information can be found at the foundation ' s web sieand official page at <URL> for additional contact information : dr gregory b newby chief executieand dietor <EMAIL> section <NUMBER> .
their sister ' s wedding day arrie ; and jane and elizabeth felt for her probably more than she felt for herself .
my dear aunt , how could you think of it ?
she has two nieces of her own .
it does not necessarily follow that a deep , intricate character is more or less estimable than such a one as yours . "
" this is a wretched beginning indeed !
elizabeth looked surprie .
" i wish i could say any thing to comfort you , " replied elizabeth ; " but it is wholly out of my power .
it is impossible for _me_ to be impartial .
" yet why did he come ? "
information about donations to the project gutenberg lieary archiefoundation project gutenberg tm depends upon and cannot surviewithout wide spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of increasing the number of public domain and liesed works that can be freely distributed in machiereadable form accessible by the wiet array of equipment including outdated equipment .
" you certainly do , " she replied with a smie " but it does not follow that the interruption must be unwelcome . "
elizabeth thought this was going pretty far ; and she listened with increasing astonishment as the housekeeper added , " i have never had a cross word from him in my lie and i have known him ever since he was four years old . "
but there was still something lurking behind , of which prudence forbad the disclosure .
elizabeth allowed that he had gie a very rational account of it , and they continued talking together with mutual satisfaction till supper put an end to cards ; and gave the rest of the ladies their share of mr wickham ' s attentions .
in the first place , she persisted in disbelieving the whole of the matter ; secondly , she was very sure that mr collins had been taken in ; thirdly , she trusted that they would never be happy together ; and fourthly , that the match might be broken off .
yes - it would be much better to wait till jane was well , and by that tiemost liey captain carter would be at meryton again .
i shall see her in january .
it was drawn at the same tieas the other - about eight years ago . "
i promie them so faithfully !
lydia was lydia still ; untamed , unabashed , wild , noisy , and fearless .
i have no pleasure in talking to undutiful children . - not that i have much pleasure indeed in talking to any body .
if you do not choose to understand me , forgiemy impertiece .
at last it arrested her - and she beheld a striking resemblance of mr darcy , with such a smieover the face , as she remembered to have sometie seen , when he looked at her .
you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary , compressed , marked up , nonproprietary or proprietary form , including any word processing or hypertext form .
it was borne in the latter with decent philosophy .
it will pass away soon enough . "
jane should therefore make the most of every half hour in which she can command his attention .
" and what has been done , what has been attempted , to recover her ? "
" aye - because she asked him at last how he lie netherfield , and he could not help answering her ; - but she said he seemed very angry at being spoke to . "
i shall intreat his pardon for not having done it earlier .
" good god !
miss bingley ' s attention was quieas much engaged in watching mr darcy ' s progress through _his_ book , as in reading her own ; and she was perpetually either making some inquiry , or looking at his page .
you are to understand , miss bennet , that i came here with the determie resolution of carrying my purpose ; nor will i be dissuaded from it .
they proceeded in siece along the gravel walk that led to the copse ; elizabeth was determie to make no effort for conversation with a woman , who was now more than usually insolent and disagreeable .
they came .
" i do not recollect that we did . "
and it is such a good joke , too , that you should have gone this morning , and never said a word about it till now . "
i have by no means done .
ii
she stared , coloured , doubted , and was siet .
i have faults enough , but they are not , i hope , of understanding .
miss bennet ' s astonishment was soon lessened by the strong sisterly partiality which made any admiration of elizabeth appear perfectly natural ; and all surpriewas shortly lost in other feelings .
" well , then - supposing them to be in london .
she then sought her eldest sister , who had undertaken to make inquiries on the same subject of bingley .
and pray what sort of guardians do you make ?
but he is , beyond all comparison , the most agreeable man i ever saw - and if he becomes really attached to me - i believe it will be better that he should not .
one ought not to repie - but , to be sure , it would have been such a thing for me !
darcy took up a book ; miss bingley did the same ; and mr hurst , principally occupied in playing with her bracelets and rings , joie now and then in her brother ' s conversation with miss bennet .
mr hurst thought the same , and added , " she has nothing , in short , to recommend her , but being an excellent walker .
chapter xix
" now i have got some news for you , " said lydia , as they sat down to table .
miss bingley offered her the carriage , and she only wanted a little pressing to accept it , when jane testified such concern in parting with her , that miss bingley was oblie to convert the offer of the chaieinto an invitation to remain at netherfield for the present .
a single man of large fortune ; four or fiethousand a year .
whatever he said , was said well ; and whatever he did , done gracefully .
what he means to do , i am sure i know not ; but his excessiedistress will not allow him to pursue any measure in the best and safest way , and colonel forster is oblie to be at brighton again to morrow evening .
the marriage of a daughter , which had been the first object of her wishes , since jane was sixteen , was now on the point of accomplishment , and her thoughts and her words ran wholly on those attendants of elegant nuptials , fiemuslins , new carriages , and servants .
when darcy returned to the saloon , miss bingley could not help repeating to him some part of what she had been saying to his sister .
as he quitted the room , elizabeth felt how improbable it was that they should ever see each other again on such terms of cordiality as had marked their several meetings in derbyshie and as she threw a retrospectieglance over the whole of their acquaintance , so full of contradictions and varieties , sighed at the perverseness of those feelings which would now have promoted its continuance , and would formerly have rejoie in its termination .
the subject which had been so warmly canvassed between their parents , about a twelvemonth ago , was now brought forward again .
by many significant looks and siet entreaties , did she endeavour to prevent such a proof of complaisance , - but in vain ; mary would not understand them ; such an opportunity of exhibiting was delightful to her , and she began her song .
my avowed one , or what i avowed to myself , was to see whether your sister were still partial to bingley , and if she were , to make the confession to him which i have since made . "
" so much the better .
" money !
mr reynolds then dieted their attention to one of miss darcy , drawn when she was only eight years old .
then addressing her daughter , " oh !
mr wickham ' s attention was caught ; and after observing mr collins for a few moments , he asked elizabeth in a low voiewhether her relation were very intimately acquainted with the family of de bourgh .
nothing had ever suggested it before , but they now felt that there was no other way of accounting for such attentions from such a quarter , than by supposing a partiality for their niece .
elizabeth laughed heartily at this picture of herself , and said to colonel fitzwilliam , " your cousin will gieyou a very pretty notion of me , and teach you not to believe a word i say .
four weeks passed away , and jane saw nothing of him .
" it was the prospect of constant society , and good society , " he added , " which was my chief inducement to enter the - shie
mr bennet was prevented replying by the entrance of the footman with a note for miss bennet ; it came from netherfield , and the servant waie for an answer .
" do you certainly leave kent on saturday ? "
" your affectionate friend , " lydia bennet "
the others have been gone on to scarborough , these three weeks . "
i knew it to be a most respectable , agreeable corps , and my friend denny tempted me farther by his account of their present quarters , and the very great attentions and excellent acquaintance meryton had procured them .
yes ; - there is nothing in that .
mr darcy with grave propriety requested to be allowed the honour of her hand ; but in vain .
" perhaps preparing for his marriage with miss de bourgh , " said elizabeth .
" these are home questions - and perhaps i cannot say that i have experienced many hardships of that nature .
let us flatter ourselves that _i_ may be the survivor . "
i see the imprudence of it . - oh !
she longed to enquieof the housekeeper , whether her master were really absent , but had not courage for it .
mary , though pretending not to hear , was somewhat disconcerted ; and elizabeth sorry for her , and sorry for her father ' s speech , was afraid her anxiety had done no good . - others of the party were now applied to .
in the gallery there were many family portraits , but they could have little to fix the attention of a stranger .
" i admieall my three sons in - law highly , " said he .
my visit was not long , as carolieand mr hurst were going out .
but it is of small importance . "
" i hope , " said she , as they were walking together in the shrubbery the next day , " you will gieyour mother in - law a few hints , when this desirable event takes place , as to the advantage of holding her tongue ; and if you can compass it , do cure the younger girls of running after the offies . - and , if i may mention so delicate a subject , endeavour to check that little something , bordering on conceit and impertiece , which your lady possesses . "
we both know that he has been profligate in every sense of the word .
" my dearest child , " she cried , " i can think of nothing else !
* * * * * they did not see the gentlemen again till tuesday ; and mr bennet , in the meanwhie was giving way to all the happy schemes , which the good humour , and common polieess of bingley , in half an hour ' s visit , had revie .
colonel forster believed that more than a thousand pounds would be necessary to clear his expences at brighton .
" already arie ! "
but jane and elizabeth , who agreed in wishing , for the sake of their sister ' s feelings and consequence , that she should be notie on her marriage by her parents , urged him so earnestly , yet so rationally and so mildly , to receieher and her husband at longbourn , as soon as they were married , that he was prevaie on to think as they thought , and act as they wished .
elizabeth could not oppose such a wish ; and from this tiemr bingley ' s name was scarcely ever mentioned between them .
carolieis incapable of wilfully deceiving any one ; and all that i can hope in this case is , that she is deceie herself . "
catherie weak spirie , irritable , and completely under lydia ' s guidance , had been always affronted by their advie and lydia , self willed and careless , would scarcely giethem a hearing .
" a gamester ! "
tell him i hope he will excuse me when he knows all , and tell him i will dance with him at the next ball we meet , with great pleasure .
let me never see either one or the other again ! "
to mr darcy it was welcome intelliece - elizabeth had been at netherfield long enough .
the arrival of letters was the first grand object of every morning ' s impatience .
" it will be _her_ turn soon to be teazed , " said miss lucas .
but she is nothing to me now .
" i should never have said mr collins was settled _near_ her family . "
for the last week they had seen very little of either lady catherieor her daughter .
there was another reason too for her opposition .
" what a charming amusement for young people this is , mr
mr collins made his declaration in form .
in the hall they parted .
he still loves me , and we are engaged . "
" you must deciefor yourself , " said elizabeth , " and if upon mature delieation , you find that the miey of disobliging his two sisters is more than equivalent to the happies of being his wie i advieyou by all means to refuse him . "
elizabeth was now most heartily sorry that she had , from the distress of the moment , been led to make mr darcy acquainted with their fears for her sister ; for since her marriage would so shortly giethe proper termination to the elopement , they might hope to conceal its unfavourable beginning , from all those who were not immediately on the spot .
you wanted me , i know , to say ' yes , ' that you might have the pleasure of despising my taste ; but i always delight in overthrowing those kind of schemes , and cheating a person of their premeditated contempt .
how shall we punish him for such a speech ? "
i must have my share in the conversation , if you are speaking of music .
" you are all kindness , madam ; but i believe we must abieby our original plan . "
no one but jane , she thought , could flatter herself with such an expectation .
no , never .
<NUMBER> . f
she must own that she was tie of great houses ; after going over so many , she really had no pleasure in fiecarpets or satin curtains .
both sisters were uncomfortable enough .
" john told us mr darcy was here when you sent for us ; - was it so ? "
he may liein my memory as the most amiable man of my acquaintance , but that is all .
towards _him_ i have been kinder than towards myself . "
but my dearest love , tell me what dish mr darcy is particularly fond of , that i may have it to morrow . "
she is all affability and condescension , and i doubt not but you will be honoured with some portion of her notiewhen servieis over .
and it was settled that we should all be there by eleven o ' clock .
elizabeth , easy and unaffected , had been listened to with much more pleasure , though not playing half so well ; and mary , at the end of a long concerto , was glad to purchase praieand gratitude by scotch and irish airs , at the request of her younger sisters , who with some of the lucases and two or three offies joie eagerly in dancing at one end of the room .
" but depend upon it , mr collins , " she added , " that lizzy shall be brought to reason .
mr gardie looked at her niece with a smie but elizabeth could not return it .
those who do not complain are never pitied . "
in short , my dear aunt , i should be very sorry to be the means of making any of you unhappy ; but since we see every day that where there is affection , young people are seldom withheld by immediate want of fortune , from entering into engagements with each other , how can i promieto be wie than so many of my fellow creatures if i am tempted , or how am i even to know that it would be wisdom to resist ?
how ardently did she long to know , whether any of his were dieted in a liemanner .
when mr bennet was told of this , she did not express so much satisfaction as her children expected , consieing what her anxiety for his liehad been before .
elizabeth was forced to gieinto a little falsehood here ; for to acknowledge the substance of their conversation was impossible .
i _must_ have employment and society .
and to be kept back on _such_ a motie - i think it would not be very liey to promote sisterly affection or delicacy of mind . "
" i am afraid you do not lieyour pen .
in as short a tieas mr collins ' s long speeches would allow , every thing was settled between them to the satisfaction of both ; and as they entered the house , he earnestly entreated her to name the day that was to make him the happiest of men ; and though such a solicitation must be waved for the present , the lady felt no inclination to trifle with his happies .
he is a gentleman ; i am a gentleman ' s daughter ; so far we are equal . "
i shall be back by dinner . "
" are you not dieted ? "
he certainly looked at her friend a great deal , but the expression of that look was disputable .
miss bennet was the only creature who could suppose there might be any extenuating circumstances in the case , unknown to the society of hertfordshie her mild and steady candour always pleaded for allowances , and urged the possibility of mistakes - but by everybody else mr darcy was condemned as the worst of men .
but i believe i must date it from my first seeing his beautiful grounds at pemberley . "
happies in marriage is entiey a matter of chance .
but there was much to be talked of , in marrying her ; and the good natured wishes for her well doing , which had proceeded before , from all the spieul old ladies in meryton , lost but little of their spirit in this change of circumstances , because with such an husband , her miey was consieed certain .
it had gie him a disgust to his busies and to his resiece in a small market town ; and quitting them both , he had removed with his family to a house about a miefrom meryton , denominated from that period lucas lodge , where he could think with pleasure of his own importance , and unshackled by busies , occupy himself solely in being civil to all the world .
" i would wish not to be hasty in censuring any one ; but i always speak what i think . "
if he had been so very agreeable he would have talked to mr long .
such a circumstance could only exasperate farther , and when he ceased , the colour rose into her cheeks , and she said , " in such cases as this , it is , i believe , the established mode to express a sense of obligation for the sentiets avowed , however unequally they may be returned .
the quiet , the retieent of such a lie would have answered all my ies of happies !
they had just been preparing to walk as the letters came in ; and her uncle and aunt , leaving her to enjoy them in quiet , set off by themselves .
" i dare say you will find him very agreeable . "
and with these words he hastily left the room , and elizabeth heard him the next moment open the front door and quit the house .
on the following morning he hastened to rosings to pay his respects .
but of course she did not mention my name to you . "
he made no answer .
miss bennet , i insist on being satisfied .
in society so superior to what she had generally known , her improvement was great .
" indeed i could not .
" that is a question which i hardly know how to answer .
for herself she was humbled ; but she was proud of him .
another intreaty that she would be serious , however , produced the desie effect ; and she soon satisfied jane by her solemn assurances of attachment .
a few weeks , he believed .
mr and mr gardie had hurried back in alarm , supposing , by the servant ' s account , that their niece was taken suddenly ill ; - but satisfying them instantly on that head , she eagerly communicated the cause of their summons , reading the two letters aloud , and dwelling on the postscript of the last , with trembling energy . - though lydia had never been a favouriewith them , mr and mr gardie could not but be deeply affected .
the first part of mr gardie ' s busies on her arrival , was to distribute her presents and descriethe newest fashions .
one may be continually abusiewithout saying any thing just ; but one cannot be always laughing at a man without now and then stumbling on something witty . "
elizabeth ' s collected behaviour , however , soon quieted his emotion ; and as miss bingley , vexed and disappointed , dared not approach nearer to wickham , georgiana also recovered in tie though not enough to be able to speak any more .
it was absolutely necessary , therefore , to think of something , and in this emergence recollecting _when_ she had seen him last in hertfordshie and feeling curious to know what he would say on the subject of their hasty departure , she observed , " how very suddenly you all quitted netherfield last november , mr darcy !
cried he , turning towards her .
" shall you ever have courage to announce to lady catherie what is to befall her ? "
" my dear father , i congratulate you . "
when the clock struck three , elizabeth felt that she must go ; and very unwillingly said so .
not to appear to disgrace his family , to degenerate from the popular qualities , or lose the influence of the pemberley house , is a powerful motie
no one admitted to the priviee of hearing you , can think any thing wanting .
they were to be off as soon as possible .
my dear lizzy , they must have passed within ten mie of us .
elizabeth was ready to speak whenever there was an opening , but she was seated between charlotte and miss de bourgh - the former of whom was engaged in listening to lady catherie and the latter said not a word to her all dinner tie
he studies too much for words of four syllables . - do not you , darcy ? "
elizabeth disdaie the appearance of noticing this civil reflection , but its meaning did not escape , nor was it liey to conciliate her .
" if !
" this is the only point , i flatter myself , on which we do not agree .
here was knowledge in which no one could partake ; and she was sensible that nothing less than a perfect understanding between the parties could justify her in throwing off this last incumbrance of mystery .
" i do not blame jane , " she continued , " for jane would have got mr bingley , if she could .
" thank you , " said lydia , " for if you did , i should certainly tell you all , and then wickham would be angry . "
" no , nothing at all . "
" removed ! "
" oh , no ! "
" my uncle is to send a servant for us . "
here they were interrupted by lady catherie who called out to know what they were talking of .
" such as vanity and prie "
" his father was an excellent man , " said mr gardie .
if you do not charge anything for copies of this ebook , complying with the rules is very easy .
" her daughter , miss de bourgh , will have a very large fortune , and it is believed that she and her cousin will uniethe two estates . "
i only fear that the sort of cautiousness , to which you , i imagie have been alluding , is merely adopted on his visits to his aunt , of whose good opinion and judgment he stands much in awe .
" and did colonel forster appear to think ill of wickham himself ?
darcy ? "
she does not yet leave her dressing room .
" not at all . "
if any disclaie or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement , the agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaie or limitation permitted by the applicable state law .
it is the greatest of favours when miss de bourgh comes in . "
" _you_ are dancing with the only handsome girl in the room , " said mr darcy , looking at the eldest miss bennet .
she had got rid of two of the secrets which had weighed on her for a fortnight , and was certain of a willing listener in jane , whenever she might wish to talk again of either .
i ought not to have said a word about it .
they were hopeless of remedy .
but i can assure the young ladies that i come prepared to admiethem .
this information , however , startled mr bennet ; - she would have been glad to be equally satisfied that her daughter had meant to encourage him by protesting against his proposals , but she dared not to believe it , and could not help saying so .
" my dear mr bennet , " said his lady to him one day , " have you heard that netherfield park is let at last ? "
she talked on , therefore , without interruption from any of them till they were joie by mr collins , who entered with an air more stately than usual , and on perceiving whom , she said to the girls , " now , i do insist upon it , that you , all of you , hold your tongues , and let mr collins and me have a little conversation together . "
elizabeth , to whom jane very soon communicated the chief of all this , heard it in siet indignation .
it was a subject , in short , on which reflection would be long indulged , and must be unavailing .
but , lizzy !
on the stairs were a troop of little boys and girls , whose eagerness for their cousings appearance would not allow them to wait in the drawing room , and whose shyness , as they had not seen her for a twelvemonth , prevented their coming lower .
her own thoughts were employing her .
i do not deserve it .
one morning , about a week after bingley ' s engagement with jane had been formed , as he and the females of the family were sitting together in the dining room , their attention was suddenly drawn to the window , by the sound of a carriage ; and they perceie a chaieand four driving up the lawn .
" the garden in which stands my humble abode , is separated only by a lane from rosings park , her ladyship ' s resiece . "
" is that his design in settling here ? "
he then asked her to walk into the house - but she declared herself not tie , and they stood together on the lawn .
sir william lucas , and his daughter maria , a good humoured girl , but as empty headed as himself , had nothing to say that could be worth hearing , and were listened to with about as much delight as the rattle of the chaie
her curiosity however was unexpectedly relieved .
you will easily comprehend , from these particulars , that mr wickham ' s circumstances are not so hopeless as they are generally believed to be .
mr darcy looked just as he had been used to look in hertfordshie paid his compliets , with his usual reserve , to mr collins ; and whatever might be his feelings towards her friend , met her with every appearance of composure .
she was very wrong in singling me out as she did ; i can safely say , that every advance to intimacy began on her sie
but every lieproved more clearly that the affair , which she had believed it impossible that any contrivance could so represent , as to render mr darcy ' s conduct in it less than infamous , was capable of a turn which must make him entiey blameless throughout the whole .
they went to the library , therefore , and asked their father , whether he would not wish them to make it known to her .
i assure you , that i have long been most heartily ashamed of it . "
i have not _that_ pain .
can copy and distribute it in the unie sttes without permission and without paying copyright royalties .
mr collins was gratified ; and with a more smiling solemnity replied , " it gie me the greatest pleasure to hear that you have passed your tienot disagreeably .
interested people have perhaps misrepresented each to the other .
she really looked almost wild . "
their eyes instantly met , and the cheeks of each were overspread with the deepest blush .
" your coming to longbourn , to see me and my family , " said elizabeth , coolly , " will be rather a confirmation of it ; if , indeed , such a report is in existence . "
i am not at all afraid of her dying .
you must therefore allow me to follow the dictates of my conscience on this occasion , which leads me to perform what i look on as a point of duty .
" we shall often meet , i hope , in hertfordshie "
" yes - _that_ is what makes it amusing .
cried elizabeth .
" i should take him , even on _my_ slight acquaintance , to be an ill tempered man . "
" if it was to be secret , " said jane , " say not another word on the subject .
how wonderfully these sort of things occur !
<NUMBER> .
" the letter , perhaps , began in bitterness , but it did not end so .
then turning to mr bennet , he offered himself as his antagonist at backgammon .
" i found , " said he , " as the tiedrew near , that i had better not meet mr darcy ; - that to be in the same room , the same party with him for so many hours together , might be more than i could bear , and that scenes might arieunpleasant to more than myself . "
lady catherieseemed pleased .
she saw instantly that her cousings manners were not altered by his marriage ; his formal civility was just what it had been , and he detaie her some minutes at the gate to hear and satisfy his enquiries after all her family .
" i have no right to gie_my_ opinion , " said wickham , " as to his being agreeable or otherwie
after a siece of several minutes he came towards her in an agitated manner , and thus began , " in vain have i struggled .
mr darcy took her advie and did finish his letter .
to congratulate myself on the hope of relations , whose condition in life is so deciely beneath my own ? "
of his former way of lie nothing had been known in hertfordshiebut what he told himself .
" and what arts did he use to separate them ? "
the more i see of the world , the more am i dissatisfied with it ; and every day confirms my belief of the inconsistency of all human characters , and of the little dependence that can be placed on the appearance of either merit or sense .
i expected to find a more reasonable young woman .
but if _we_ do not venture , somebody else will ; and after all , mr long and her nieces must stand their chance ; and therefore , as she will think it an act of kindness , if you decliethe offie i will take it on myself . "
i could hardly keep my countenance .
elizabeth did not quit her room for a moment , nor were the other ladies often absent ; the gentlemen being out , they had in fact nothing to do elsewhere .
elizabeth was eager with her thanks and assurances of happies .
" oh !
the evening altogether passed off pleasantly to the whole family .
every ie that had been brought forward by the housekeeper was favourable to his character , and as she stood before the canvas , on which he was represented , and fie his eyes upon herself , she thought of his regard with a deeper sentiet of gratitude than it had ever raie before ; she remembered its warmth , and softened its impropriety of expression .
" _you_ observed it , mr darcy , i am sure , " said miss bingley ; " and i am inclie to think that you would not wish to see _your sister_ make such an exhibition . "
she wanted to talk , but there seemed an embargo on every subject .
" and lydia used to want to go to london , " added kitty .
_i_ never saw such capacity , and taste , and application , and elegance , as you descrie unie . "
" you may depend upon my not mentioning it . "
if he fears me , why come hither ?
her mind receie knowledge which had never before fallen in her way .
chapter xiv
when they were all in the drawing room , the questions which elizabeth had already asked , were of course repeated by the others , and they soon found that jane had no intelliece to gie
darcy . "
could he , or the lucases , have pitched on any man , within the circle of our acquaintance , whose name would have gie the lie more effectually to what they related ?
but that is not the case _here_ .
first , that you will allow me the free use of my understanding on the present occasion ; and secondly , of my room .
are you out of your senses , to be accepting this man ?
" it is a rule with me , that a person who can wriea long letter , with ease , cannot wrieill . " " that will not do for a compliet to darcy , carolie " cried her brother - " because he does _not_ wriewith ease .
" you either chuse this method of passing the evening because you are in each other ' s confiece and have secret affairs to discuss , or because you are conscious that your figures appear to the greatest advantage in walking ; - if the first , i should be completely in your way ; - and if the second , i can admieyou much better as i sit by the fie "
pray , how _violent was_ mr bingley ' s love ? "
my poor father !
little more than half a day ' s journey .
a low phaeton , with a nielittle pair of ponies , would be the very thing .
lydia ' s intention of walking to meryton was not forgotten ; every sister except mary agreed to go with her ; and mr collins was to attend them , at the request of mr bennet , who was most anxious to get rid of him , and have his library to himself ; for thither mr collins had followed him after breakfast , and there he would continue , nominally engaged with one of the largest folios in the collection , but really talking to mr bennet , with little cessation , of his house and garden at hunsford .
redistribution is subject to the trademark liese , especially commercial redistribution .
i am quiewell .
elizabeth , feeling really anxious , was determie to go to her , though the carriage was not to be had ; and as she was no horse woman , walking was her only alternatie
she talked to elizabeth again and again ; coaxed and threatened her by turns .
once or twieshe could discern a faint blush ; but in general charlotte wiey did not hear .
" miss bingley told me , " said jane , " that he never speaks much unless among his intimate acquaintance .
she had heard nothing of lady catheriethat spoke her awful from any extraordinary talents or miraculous virtue , and the mere statelies of money and rank , she thought she could witness without trepidation .
smie decked the face of mr bennet , as the carriage drove up to the door ; her husband looked impenetrably grave ; her daughters , alarmed , anxious , uneasy .
he was most highly esteemed by mr darcy , a most intimate , confietial friend .
" it keeps him in good humour , " said she , " and i am more oblie to you than i can express . "
lady lucas quieted her fears a little by starting the ie of his being gone to london only to get a large party for the ball ; and a report soon followed that mr bingley was to bring twelve ladies and seven gentlemen with him to the assembly .
pray forgive me , if i have been very presuming , or at least do not punish me so far , as to exclude me from p i shall never be quiehappy till i have been all round the park .
he joie them on their entering the town and attended them to their aunt ' s , where his regret and vexation , and the concern of every body was well talked over . - to elizabeth , however , he voluntarily acknowledged that the necessity of his absence _had_ been self imposed .
she dreaded seeing wickham again , and was resolved to avoid it as long as possible .
you shall not , for the sake of one individual , change the meaning of principle and integrity , nor endeavour to persuade yourself or me , that selfishness is prudence , and insensibility of danger , security for happies . "
vain , ignorant , idle , and absolutely uncontrouled !
i mend pens remarkably well . "
" i expected at least that the pigs were got into the garden , and here is nothing but lady catherieand her daughter ! "
instead of receiving any such letter of excuse from his friend , as elizabeth half expected mr bingley to do , he was able to bring darcy with him to longbourn before many days had passed after lady catheries visit .
to mr and mr gardie he was scarcely a less interesting personage than to herself .
" i have found out , " said he , " by a singular acciet , that there is now in the room a near relation of my patroness .
" that you were gone into the army , and she was afraid had - not turned out well .
she would not even wish for any renewal of his attentions .
well , i am sure i shall be extremely glad to see mr
you must know that i am thinking of his marrying one of them . "
bingley met them with hopes that mr bennet had not found miss bennet worse than she expected .
mr collins welcomed her friend with the lieiest pleasure , and elizabeth was more and more satisfied with coming , when she found herself so affectionately receie .
" as much as i ever wish to be , " cried elizabeth warmly , - " i have spent four days in the same house with him , and i think him very disagreeable . "
" yes ; and i told him we should not be able to keep our engagement .
but i have always observed , that they who are good natured when children , are good natured when they grow up ; and he was always the sweetest tempered , most generous hearted , boy in the world . "
you are all to come to pemberley at christmas .
* * * * * transcrie ' s note : spelling and hyphen changes have been made so that there is consistency within the book .
bingley ? "
but mr bennet was not of a disposition to seek comfort for the disappointment which his own imprudence had brought on , in any of those pleasures which too often console the unfortunate for their folly or their vie
they walked towards the lucases , because kitty wished to call upon maria ; and as elizabeth saw no occasion for making it a general concern , when kitty left them , she went boldly on with him alone .
it has been most unconsciously done , however , and i hope will be of short duration .
he bore with philosophy the conviction that elizabeth must now become acquainted with whatever of his ingratitude and falsehood had before been unknown to her ; and in spieof every thing , was not wholly without hope that darcy might yet be prevaie on to make his fortune .
i assure you that if darcy were not such a great tall fellow , in comparison with myself , i should not pay him half so much deference .
in a few days mr bingley returned mr bennet ' s visit , and sat about ten minutes with him in his library .
you will be censured , slighted , and despie , by every one connected with him .
i see nothing in it but your own wilful ignorance and the malieof mr
i am sure my sisters must all envy me .
we have heard nothing from town . "
mr gardie was standing a little behind ; and on her pausing , he asked her , if she would do him the honour of introducing him to her friends .
to such perseverance in wilful self deception elizabeth would make no reply , and immediately and in siece withdrew ; determie , if he persisted in consieing her repeated refusals as flattering encouragement , to apply to her father , whose negatiemight be uttered in such a manner as must be decisie and whose behaviour at least could not be mistaken for the affectation and coquetry of an elegant female .
i know my dear uncle and aunt so well , that i am not afraid of requesting it , though i have still something more to ask of the former .
he observed to her , at a moment when the others were talking together , and in a tone which had something of real regret , that it " was a very long tiesince he had had the pleasure of seeing her ; " and , before she could reply , he added , " it is above eight months .
she burst into tears as she alluded to it , and for a few minutes could not speak another word .
but , luckily , he came back again in ten minutes tie and then we all set out .
she soon learnt that they were indebted for their present good understanding to the efforts of his aunt , who _did_ call on him in her return through london , and there relate her journey to longbourn , its motie and the substance of her conversation with elizabeth ; dwelling emphatically on every expression of the latter , which , in her ladyship ' s apprehension , peculiarly denoted her perverseness and assurance , in the belief that such a relation must assist her endeavours to obtain that promiefrom her nephew , which _she_ had refused to gie
" to yield without conviction is no compliet to the understanding of either . "
all meryton seemed striving to blacken the man , who , but three months before , had been almost an angel of light .
" i wish it may . "
" i understood that there were some very strong objections against the lady . "
he was declared to be in debt to every tradesman in the place , and his intrigues , all honoured with the title of seduction , had been extended into every tradesman ' s family .
they returned therefore in good spirits to longbourn , the village where they lie , and of which they were the principal inhabitants .
as they passed through the hall , lady catherieopened the doors into the dining parlour and drawing room , and pronouncing them , after a short survey , to be decent looking rooms , walked on .
" oh !
this letter is from mr
repeated darcy contemptuously ; " yes , his misfortunes have been great indeed . "
human nature is so prone to fall into it !
" he did not talk to me of his own arts , " said fitzwilliam smiling .
" but perhaps he may be a little whimsical in his civilities , " replied her uncle .
and when the party entered the assembly room , it consisted of only five altogether ; mr bingley , his two sisters , the husband of the eldest , and another young man .
heaven forbid !
" oh , yes !
the town where she had formerly passed some years of her lie and where they were now to spend a few days , was probably as great an object of her curiosity , as all the celebrated beauties of matlock , chatsworth , dovedale , or the peak .
