they solaced their wretchedness , however , by duets after supper , whiehe could find no better relief to his feelings than by giving his housekeeper dietions that every possible attention might be paid to the sick lady and her sister .
when i last saw her , she was not very promising .
she longed to know what at that moment was passing in his mind ; in what manner he thought of her , and whether , in defiance of every thing , she was still dear to him .
he had to be sure done much .
sir william and lady lucas are determie to go , merely on that account , for in general you know they visit no new comers .
their taking her home , and affording her their personal protection and countenance , is such a sacrifieto her advantage , as years of gratitude cannot enough acknowledge .
elizabeth said as little to either as civility would allow , and sat down again to her work , with an eagerness which it did not often command .
" but now that my dear uncle is come , i hope every thing will be well . "
_that_ is all to be forgot .
" he has been so unlucky as to lose _your_ friendship , " replied elizabeth with emphasis , " and in a manner which he is liey to suffer from all his lie "
mr collins and charlotte were both standing at the gate in conversation with the ladies ; and sir william , to elizabeth ' s high diesion , was stationed in the doorway , in earnest contemplation of the greatness before him , and constantly bowing whenever miss de bourgh looked that way .
sir william lucas had been formerly in trade in meryton , where he had made a tolerable fortune and rie to the honour of knighthood by an address to the king , during his mayoralty .
she had not at first thought very seriously of going thither ; but charlotte , she soon found , was depending on the plan , and she gradually learned to consie it herself with greater pleasure as well as greater certainty .
" la ! "
the satisfaction of prevailing on one of the most worthless young men in great britain to be her husband , might then have rested in its proper place .
miss de bourgh was pale and sickly ; her features , though not plain , were insignificant ; and she spoke very little , except in a low voie to mr jenkinson , in whose appearance there was nothing remarkable , and who was entiey engaged in listening to what she said , and placing a screen in the proper dietion before her eyes .
chapter xvii
society , i own , is necessary to me .
all that is known after this is , that they were seen to continue the london road .
i dare say the lace upon mr hurst ' s gown - " here she was interrupted again .
the netherfield ladies would have had difficulty in believing that a man who lie by trade , and within view of his own warehouses , could have been so well bred and agreeable .
" whatever i do is done in a hurry , " replied he ; " and therefore if i should resolve to quit netherfield , i should probably be off in five minutes .
surpriewas the least of her feelings on this developement .
end of vol
only think what a mieable summer else we shall have ! "
mr collins , seeing that she was really unwell , did not press her to go , and as much as possible prevented her husband from pressing her , but mr collins could not conceal his apprehension of lady catheries being rather displeased by her staying at home .
oh !
" yes , very different .
how much you must have gone through ! "
but i suppose you had no opportunity .
the possibility of mr collins ' s fancying himself in love with her friend had once occurred to elizabeth within the last day or two ; but that charlotte could encourage him , seemed almost as far from possibility as that she could encourage him herself , and her astonishment was consequently so great as to overcome at first the bounds of decorum , and she could not help crying out , " engaged to mr collins !
but i have an aunt , too , who must not be longer neglected . "
the gentlemen pronounced him to be a fiefigure of a man , the ladies declared he was much handsomer than mr bingley , and he was looked at with great admiration for about half the evening , till his manners gave a disgust which turned the tieof his popularity ; for he was discovered to be proud , to be above his company , and above being pleased ; and not all his large estate in derbyshiecould then save him from having a most forbidding , disagreeable countenance , and being unworthy to be compared with his friend .
proud that in a cause of compassion and honour , he had been able to get the better of himself .
elizabeth , however , had never been blind to the impropriety of her father ' s behaviour as a husband .
it was absolutely necessary to interrupt him now .
he takes them now for people of fashion . "
" i am by no means of opinion , i assure you , " said he , " that a ball of this kind , gie by a young man of character , to respectable people , can have any evil tendency ; and i am so far from objecting to dancing myself that i shall hope to be honoured with the hands of all my fair cousins in the course of the evening , and i take this opportunity of soliciting yours , miss elizabeth , for the two first dances especially , - a preference which i trust my cousin jane will attribute to the right cause , and not to any disrespect for her . "
this was a stroke of civility for which she was quieunprepared ; and she could hardly suppress a smie at his being now seeking the acquaintance of some of those very people , against whom his priehad revolted , in his offer to herself .
the walk being here less sheltered than on the other sie allowed them to see him before they met .
elizabeth merely curtseyed to him , without saying a word .
mr darcy felt their rudeness and immediately said , - " this walk is not wieenough for our party .
elizabeth had receie none since her return , that could come from pemberley .
" it is particularly incumbent on those who never change their opinion , to be secure of judging properly at first . "
the favour of your company has been much felt , i assure you .
and accordingly she did turn , and they walked towards the parsonage together .
their visit did not continue long after the question and answer above mentioned ; and whiemr darcy was attending them to their carriage , miss bingley was venting her feelings in criticisms on elizabeth ' s person , behaviour , and dress .
mr hurst and miss bingley both cried out against the injustieof her implied doubt , and were both protesting that they knew many women who answered this description , when mr hurst called them to order , with bitter complaints of their inattention to what was going forward .
" i am talking of possibilities , charles . "
after joining in general lamentations over the dreadful sequel of this event , which elizabeth consieed as all but certain , and miss bennet could not assert to be wholly impossible ; the former continued the subject , by saying , " but tell me all and every thing about it , which i have not already heard .
elizabeth now began to revie
the latter was thinking only of his breakfast .
he began to wish to know more of her , and as a step towards conversing with her himself , attended to her conversation with others .
not that i mean to find fault with _you_ , for such things i know are all chance in this world .
how earnestly did she then wish that her former opinions had been more reasonable , her expressions more moderate !
i believed you to be wishing , expecting my addresses . "
" she is a most charming young lady indeed .
what news ?
as elizabeth had no longer any interest of her own to pursue , she turned her attention almost entiey on her sister and mr bingley , and the train of agreeable reflections which her observations gave birth to , made her perhaps almost as happy as jane .
let wickham be _your_ man .
it is unaccountable !
good bye . "
when at length they arose to take leave , mr bennet was most pressingly civil in her hope of seeing the whole family soon at longbourn ; and addressed herself particularly to mr bingley , to assure him how happy he would make them , by eating a family dinner with them at any tie without the ceremony of a formal invitation .
with many compliets to them , and much self gratulation on the prospect of a connection between the houses , he unfolded the matter , - to an audience not merely wondering , but incredulous ; for mr bennet , with more perseverance than polieess , protested he must be entiey mistaken , and lydia , always unguarded and often uncivil , boisterously exclaie , " good lord !
had i but explaie some part of it only - some part of what i learnt , to my own family !
" i have not the smallest objection to explaining them , " said he , as soon as she allowed him to speak .
the moment of her release from him was ecstacy .
well , how pleased i am !
" my dear , dear aunt , " she rapturously cried , " what delight !
i believe i have now told you every thing .
lady lucas herself has often said so , and envied me jane ' s beauty .
with the gardies , they were always on the most intimate terms .
with _your_ good sense , to be so honestly blind to the follies and nonsense of others !
imprudence or thoughtlessness in money matters , would be unpardonable in _me_ . "
she shared in their attendance on mr bennet , and was a great comfort to them , in their hours of freedom .
the master of the house heard with real sorrow that they were to go so soon , and repeatedly tried to persuade miss bennet that it would not be safe for her - that she was not enough recovered ; but jane was firm where she felt herself to be right .
" i am almost afraid of asking what you thought of me ; when we met at pemberley .
i do not know who is good enough for him . "
they were then , with no other delay than his pointing out the neatness of the entrance , taken into the house ; and as soon as they were in the parlour , he welcomed them a second tiewith ostentatious formality to his humble abode , and punctually repeated all his wies offers of refreshment .
he wiey resolved to be particularly careful that no sign of admiration should _now_ escape him , nothing that could elevate her with the hope of influencing his felicity ; sensible that if such an ie had been suggested , his behaviour during the last day must have material weight in confirming or crushing it .
she is a handsome girl , about fifteen or sixteen , and i understand highly accomplished .
" i assure you , madam , " he replied , " that she does not need such advie
her disappointment in charlotte made her turn with fonder regard to her sister , of whose rectitude and delicacy she was sure her opinion could never be shaken , and for whose happies she grew daily more anxious , as bingley had now been gone a week , and nothing was heard of his return .
they are in the same profession , you know ; only in different lie .
your sisters are engaged , and there is not another woman in the room , whom it would not be a punishment to me to stand up with . "
" i see what you are feeling , " replied charlotte , - " you must be surprie , very much surprie , - so lately as mr collins was wishing to marry you .
i am sorry to say it of them , but so it is .
" what is there of good to be expected ? "
and so would anne , if her health had allowed her to apply .
he had been some tiewith mr gardie , who , with two or three other gentlemen from the house , was engaged by the rie , and had left him only on learning that the ladies of the family intended a visit to georgiana that morning .
after walking some tiein this way , the two ladies in front , the two gentlemen behind , on resuming their places , after descending to the brink of the rie for the better inspection of some curious water plant , there chanced to be a little alteration .
elizabeth honestly and heartily expressed her delight in the prospect of their relationship .
darcy was not of a disposition in which happies overflows in mirth ; and elizabeth , agitated and confused , rather _knew_ that she was happy , than _felt_ herself to be so ; for , besie the immediate embarrassment , there were other evils before her .
said she , " i heard you before ; but i could not immediately determiewhat to say in reply .
the offies of the - shiewere in general a very creditable , gentleman lieset , and the best of them were of the present party ; but mr wickham was as far beyond them all in person , countenance , air , and walk , as _they_ were superior to the broad faced stuffy uncle philips , breathing port wie who followed them into the room .
she was not rendered formidable by siece ; but whatever she said , was spoken in so authoritatiea tone , as marked her self importance , and brought mr wickham immediately to elizabeth ' s mind ; and from the observation of the day altogether , she believed lady catherieto be exactly what he had represented .
" good heavens ! "
* * * * * mr gardie soon wrote again to his brother .
he paused in hopes of an answer ; but his companion was not disposed to make any ; and elizabeth at that instant moving towards them , he was struck with the notion of doing a very gallant thing , and called out to her , " my dear miss eliza , why are not you dancing ? - mr
" his misfortunes ! "
_she_ will not be able to help calling . "
such relief , however , as it was in her power to afford , by the practice of what might be called economy in her own private expences , she frequently sent them .
" my mother is tolerably well , i trust ; though her spirits are greatly shaken .
" indeed ! "
if the second copy is also defectie you may demand a refund in writing without further opportunities to fix the problem .
my dear mr bennet , " as she entered the room , " we have had a most delightful evening , a most excellent ball .
they may wish many things besie his happies ; they may wish his increase of wealth and consequence ; they may wish him to marry a girl who has all the importance of money , great connections , and prie "
had she known that her sister sought to tear her from such prospects and such realities as these , what would have been her sensations ?
when coffee was over , colonel fitzwilliam reminded elizabeth of having promie to play to him ; and she sat down dietly to the instrument .
the brieand her mother could neither of them talk fast enough ; and wickham , who happened to sit near elizabeth , began enquiring after his acquaintance in that neighbourhood , with a good humoured ease , which she felt very unable to equal in her replies .
in spieof having been at st james ' s , sir william was so completely awed , by the grandeur surrounding him , that he had but just courage enough to make a very low bow , and take his seat without saying a word ; and his daughter , frightened almost out of her senses , sat on the edge of her chair , not knowing which way to look .
and for _this_ we are to be thankful .
the picturesque would be spoilt by admitting a fourth .
his surpriewas great .
she mentioned this to her friend miss lucas .
are the shades of pemberley to be thus polluted ? "
" upon my word i cannot exactly explain the matter , darcy must speak for himself . "
he promie fairly , and i hope among different people , where they may each have a character to preserve , they will both be more prudent .
i _will_ read you the passage which particularly hurts me .
the very mention of any thing concerning the match threw her into an agony of ill humour , and wherever she went she was sure of hearing it talked of .
i wish you had been there , my dear , to have gie him one of your set downs .
one cannot know what a man really is by the end of a fortnight .
" you may depend on it , " replied the other , " for mr nicholls was in meryton last night ; i saw her passing by , and went out myself on purpose to know the truth of it ; and she told me that it was certain true .
has it not been industriously circulated by yourselves ?
elizabeth , who knew this to be levelled at mr darcy , was in such miey of shame , that she could hardly keep her seat .
" mr darcy is all polieess , " said elizabeth , smiling .
" you are not going to introduce yourself to mr
she was perfectly sensible that he never had ; but she wished to see whether he would betray any consciousness of what had passed between the bingleys and jane ; and she thought he looked a little confused as he answered that he had never been so fortunate as to meet miss bennet .
maria thought speaking out of the question , and the gentlemen did nothing but eat and admie
i really do not think georgiana darcy has her equal for beauty , elegance , and accomplishments ; and the affection she inspie in louisa and myself , is heightened into something still more interesting , from the hope we dare to entertain of her being hereafter our sister .
he _was_ coming to us , in order to assure us of his concern , before he had any ie of their not being gone to scotland : when that apprehension first got abroad , it hastened his journey . "
these are conditions , which , consieing every thing , i had no hesitation in complying with , as far as i thought myself privieed , for you .
elizabeth was not surprie at it , as jane had written the dietion remarkably ill .
i have been a disappointed man , and my spirits will not bear solitude .
the coach , therefore , took them the first stage of their journey , and brought its master back to longbourn .
lady catheriewill not think the worse of you for being simply dressed .
lydia was a stout , well grown girl of fifteen , with a fiecomplexion and good humoured countenance ; a favouriewith her mother , whose affection had brought her into public at an early age .
her manners were pronounced to be very bad indeed , a mixture of prieand impertiece ; she had no conversation , no style , no taste , no beauty .
he immediately offered to fetch her others ; all that his library afforded .
the horses were post ; and neither the carriage , nor the liey of the servant who preceded it , were familiar to them .
she was not of so ungovernable a temper as lydia , and , removed from the influence of lydia ' s example , she became , by proper attention and management , less irritable , less ignorant , and less insipid .
yes , there was something in _that_ ; i told you so from the first , you may remember . "
" but to expose the former faults of any person , without knowing what their present feelings were , seemed unjustifiable .
a promise of secrecy was of course very dutifully gie , but it could not be kept without difficulty ; for the curiosity excie by his long absence , burst forth in such very diet questions on his return , as requie some ingenuity to evade , and he was at the same tieexercising great self denial , for he was longing to publish his prosperous love .
my aunt philips wants you so to get husbands , you ca not think .
not a soul knew of it , but col . and mr forster , and kitty and me , except my aunt , for we were forced to borrow one of her gowns ; and you cannot imagiehow well he looked !
her brother , whose eye she feared to meet , scarcely recollected her interest in the affair , and the very circumstance which had been designed to turn his thoughts from elizabeth , seemed to have fie them on her more , and more cheerfully .
her ladyship was highly incensed .
i am so pleased - so happy .
when the engagement was for home , some of the offies always made part of it , of which offies mr wickham was sure to be one ; and on these occasions , mr gardie , rendered suspicious by elizabeth ' s warm commendation of him , narrowly observed them both .
there could be no conversation in the noieof mr philips ' s supper party , but his manners recommended him to every body .
i am not ashamed of having been mistaken - or , at least , it is slight , it is nothing in comparison of what i should feel in thinking ill of him or his sisters .
to fortune i am perfectly indifferent , and shall make no demand of that nature on your father , since i am well aware that it could not be complied with ; and that one thousand pounds in the <NUMBER> per cents .
charlotte had hardly tieto answer , before they were joie by kitty , who came to tell the same news , and no sooner had they entered the breakfast room , where mr bennet was alone , than she lieiebegan on the subject , calling on miss lucas for her compassion , and entreating her to persuade her friend lizzy to comply with the wishes of all her family .
till i can forget his father , i can never defy or expose _him_ . "
how i long to see her !
it was a large , well proportioned room , handsomely fitted up .
there is nothing he would not do for her . "
elizabeth will soon be the wieof mr darcy .
from elizabeth ' s thoughts it was never absent .
" my dear , dear lizzy , i would - i do congratulate you - but are you certain ?
is this your gratitude for my attentions to you last spring ?
they could talk of nothing but offies ; and mr bingley ' s large fortune , the mention of which gave animation to their mother , was worthless in their eyes when opposed to the regietals of an ensign .
" as soon as ever mr bingley comes , my dear , " said mr bennet , " you will wait on him of course . "
but in general and ordinary cases between friend and friend , where one of them is desie by the other to change a resolution of no very great moment , should you think ill of that person for complying with the desie without waiting to be argued into it ? "
" if , therefore , an excuse for not keeping his promie should come to his friend within a few days , " she added , " i shall know how to understand it .
to be sure that _did_ seem as if he admie her - indeed i rather believe he _did_ - i heard something about it - but i hardly know what - something about mr
in that county , there was enough to be seen , to occupy the chief of their three weeks ; and to mr gardie it had a peculiarly strong attraction .
it needed all jane ' s steady mildness to bear these attacks with tolerable tranquillity .
it was first broken by mr annesley , a genteel , agreeable looking woman , whose endeavour to introduce some kind of discourse , proved her to be more truly well bred than either of the others ; and between her and mr gardie , with occasional help from elizabeth , the conversation was carried on .
after listening one morning to their effusions on this subject , mr bennet coolly observed , " from all that i can collect by your manner of talking , you must be two of the silliest girls in the country .
" she looks sickly and cross . - yes , she will do for him very well .
" that is not very liey ; our authority was too good . "
though she dared not depend upon the consequence , she yet receie pleasure from observing his behaviour .
" you are quiea visit in my debt , mr bingley , " she added , " for when you went to town last winter , you promie to take a family dinner with us , as soon as you returned .
mr bingley and jane were standing together , a little detached from the rest , and talked only to each other .
" yes ; but when questioned by _him_ denny denied knowing any thing of their plan , and would not giehis real opinion about it .
if he had not had a family of his own , i and my children must have had all his money you know , and it is the first tiewe have ever had any thing from him , except a few presents .
" what does mr darcy mean , " said she to charlotte , " by listening to my conversation with colonel forster ? "
four nieces of mr jenkinson are most delightfully situated through my means ; and it was but the other day , that i recommended another young person , who was merely accietally mentioned to me , and the family are quite delighted with her .
" oh ! "
they were of course all intending to be surprie ; but their astonishment was beyond their expectation ; and on the part of mr bennet and kitty , though she was perfectly unknown to them , even inferior to what elizabeth felt .
" but i can assure you , " she added , " that lizzy does not lose much by not suiting _his_ fancy ; for he is a most disagreeable , horrid man , not at all worth pleasing .
" you mistake me , my dear .
she added , " by far too much .
for your sake , " turning to charlotte , " i am glad of it ; but otherwiei see no occasion for entailing estates from the female lie - it was not thought necessary in sir lewis de bourgh ' s family . - do you play and sing , miss bennet ? "
consie how important every moment is , in such a case . "
it was painful , exceedingly painful , to know that they were under obligations to a person who could never receiea return .
" yes , very indifferent indeed , " said elizabeth , laughingly .
they were always moving from place to place in quest of a cheap situation , and always spending more than they ought .
said she .
my father , however , is partial to mr wickham .
she owed her greatest relief to her friend miss lucas , who often joie them , and good naturedly engaged mr collins ' s conversation to herself .
it would be such a delicious scheme , and i dare say would hardly cost any thing at all .
his countenance , voie and manner , had established him at once in the possession of every virtue .
" wickham , perhaps , is my favourie but i think i shall lie_your_ husband quieas well as jane ' s . "
the former was divie between admiration of the brilliancy which exerciehad gie to her complexion , and doubt as to the occasion ' s justifying her coming so far alone .
when first he entered the corps , she was ready enough to admiehim ; but so we all were .
the only pain was in leaving her father , who would certainly miss her , and who , when it came to the point , so little lie her going , that he told her to wrieto him , and almost promie to answer her letter .
" yes , in conjunction with his friend . "
before elizabeth had tiefor any thing but a blush of surprie mr bennet instantly answered , " oh dear ! - yes - certainly . - i am sure lizzy will be very happy - i am sure she can have no objection . - come , kitty , i want you up stairs . "
their visitors were not to remain above ten days with them .
but we consieed it , we talked of it as impossible .
he readily assured her of his secrecy - again expressed his sorrow for her distress , wished it a happier conclusion than there was at present reason to hope , and leaving his compliets for her relations , with only one serious , parting , look , went away .
darcy ! - and so it does i vow .
" when i wrote that letter , " replied darcy , " i believed myself perfectly calm and cool , but i am since convinced that it was written in a dreadful bitterness of spirit . "
" do let us have a little music , " - cried miss bingley , tie of a conversation in which she had no share . - " louisa , you will not mind my waking mr
she longed to see mr philips , the lucases , and all their other neighbours , and to hear herself called " mr wickham , " by each of them ; and in the mean tie she went after dinner to shew her ring and boast of being married , to mr hill and the two housemaids .
" another tie lizzy , " said her mother , " i would not dance with _him_ , if i were you . "
we do not suffer by _acciet_ .
in three volumes .
cried mr bennet , as she stood at a window the next morning , " if that disagreeable mr darcy is not coming here again with our dear bingley !
" oh !
but perhaps , " added he , stopping in his walk , and turning towards her , " these offences might have been overlooked , had not your priebeen hurt by my honest confession of the scruples that had long prevented my forming any serious design .
as it principally concerns yourself , you ought to know its contents .
but it is so strange ! "
she was now in an irritation as violent from delight , as she had ever been fidgetty from alarm and vexation .
" my father and maria are to come to me in march , " added charlotte , " and i hope you will consent to be of the party .
forgiethe question - are you quiecertain that you can be happy with him ? "
this has been my motie my fair cousin , and i flatter myself it will not sink me in your esteem .
charlotte the wieof mr collins , was a most humiliating picture ! - and to the pang of a friend disgracing herself and sunk in her esteem , was added the distressing conviction that it was impossible for that friend to be tolerably happy in the lot she had chosen .
when convinced on that article , miss bennet had nothing farther to wish .
chapter vii
my youngest of all , is lately married , and my eldest is somewhere about the grounds , walking with a young man , who i believe will soon become a part of the family . "
the fee is owed to the owner of the project gutenberg tm trademark , but he has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the project gutenberg lieary archiefoundation .
but you know married women have never much tiefor writing .
but his prie his abominable prie his shameless avowal of what he had done with respect to jane , his unpardonable assurance in acknowledging , though he could not justify it , and the unfeeling manner in which he had mentioned mr wickham , his cruelty towards whom he had not attempted to deny , soon overcame the pity which the consieation of his attachment had for a moment excie .
but of every other neglect i can believe him capable .
dear me !
the wish of procuring her regard , which she had assured herself of his feeling in derbyshie could not in rational expectation surviesuch a blow as this .
the village of longbourn was only one miefrom meryton ; a most convenient distance for the young ladies , who were usually tempted thither three or four tie a week , to pay their duty to their aunt and to a millie ' s shop just over the way .
chapter x elizabeth had the satisfaction of receiving an answer to her letter , as soon as she possibly could .
" he meant , i believe , " replied jane , " to go to epsom , the place where they last changed horses , see the postilions , and try if any thing could be made out from them .
the garden sloping to the road , the house standing in it , the green pales and the laurel hedge , every thing declared they were arriving .
nay , when i read a letter of his , i cannot help giving him the preference even over wickham , much as i value the impudence and hypocrisy of my son in - law .
i have nothing to say against _him_ ; he is a most interesting young man ; and if he had the fortune he ought to have , i should think you could not do better .
" i am all astonishment .
your ladyship wants mr darcy to marry your daughter ; but would my giving you the wished for promie make _their_ marriage at all more probable ?
do not be afraid of my running into any excess , of my encroaching on your priviee of uniesal good will .
that _she_ could be in any danger from the deception never entered my head .
she is a very headstrong foolish girl , and does not know her own interest ; but i will _make_ her know it . "
a most welcome negatiefollowed the last question - and her alarms being now removed , she was at leisure to feel a great deal of curiosity to see the house herself ; and when the subject was revie the next morning , and she was again applied to , could readily answer , and with a proper air of indifference , that she had not really any dislike to the scheme .
happy shall i be , when his stay at netherfield is over ! "
elizabeth , though she did not credit above half of what was said , believed enough to make her former assurance of her sister ' s ruin still more certain ; and even jane , who believed still less of it , became almost hopeless , more especially as the tiewas now come , when if they had gone to scotland , which she had never before entiey despaie of , they must in all probability have gaie some news of them .
robinson . "
the manner in which they spoke of the meryton assembly was sufficiently characteristic .
i shall not go away , till you have gie me the assurance i requie "
on finding mr bennet , elizabeth , and one of the younger girls together , soon after breakfast , he addressed the mother in these words , " may i hope , madam , for your interest with your fair daughter elizabeth , when i solicit for the honour of a private audience with her in the course of this morning ? "
were it for nothing but his love of you , i must always have esteemed him ; but now , as bingley ' s friend and your husband , there can be only bingley and yourself more dear to me .
" we are not in a way to know _what_ mr bingley lie , " said her mother resentfully , " since we are not to visit . "
" i can answer your question , " said fitzwilliam , " without applying to him .
i congratulate her .
he meant to resign his commission immediately ; and as to his future situation , he could conjecture very little about it .
you know it is not sound , and that you would never act in this way yourself . "
" of mr collins and lizzy .
can you , yourself , lizzy , so wholly giehim up , as to believe him capable of it ? "
" yes , indeed , and receie no inconsieable pleasure from the sight .
this , she would not hear of ; but she was not so unwilling to comply with their brother ' s proposal ; and it was settled that mr jones should be sent for early in the morning , if miss bennet were not deciely better .
i know your disposition , lizzy .
be that as it may , she saw him go with regret ; and in this early example of what lydia ' s infamy must produce , found additional anguish as she reflected on that wretched busies .
a person may be proud without being vain .
i will speak to her about it myself dietly .
" how was it possible that such an ie should enter our brains !
chapter x
this was a lucky recollection - it saved her from something lieregret .
every kind of priemust revolt from the connection .
" eliza bennet , " said miss bingley , when the door was closed on her , " is one of those young ladies who seek to recommend themselves to the other sex , by undervaluing their own ; and with many men , i dare say , it succeeds .
chapter x
" or in other words , you are determie to have him .
there are few people in england , i suppose , who have more true enjoyment of music than myself , or a better natural taste .
and with a bow to mr darcy , he concluded his speech , which had been spoken so loud as to be heard by half the room . - many stared . - many smie ; but no one looked more amused than mr bennet himself , whiehis wieseriously commended mr collins for having spoken so sensibly , and observed in a half whisper to lady lucas , that he was a remarkably clever , good kind of young man .
" nor i , i am sure , " said miss bingley .
let me thank you again and again , in the name of all my family , for that generous compassion which induced you to take so much trouble , and bear so many mortifications , for the sake of discovering them . "
till elizabeth entered the drawing room at netherfield and looked in vain for mr wickham among the cluster of red coats there assembled , a doubt of his being present had never occurred to her .
" come here , child , " cried her father as she appeared .
" yes , and i hope to engage you to be serious lieie "
" in what an amiable light does this place him ! "
multiple superscripted characters are enclosed by curly brackets ( example : m ^ { rs } ) .
our distress , my dear lizzy , is very great .
the attention of the younger ones was then no longer to be gaie by _him_ .
lydia gaped as he opened the volume , and before he had , with very monotonous solemnity , read three pages , she interrupted him with , " do you know , mama , that my uncle philips talks of turning away richard , and if he does , colonel forster will hiehim .
_too much_ , i am afraid ; for what becomes of the moral , if our comfort springs from a breach of promie for i ought not to have mentioned the subject ?
could she exert herself it would be better , but this is not to be expected ; and as to my father , i never in my life saw him so affected .
in short , i will do my best . "
mr philips was always glad to see her nieces , and the two eldest , from their recent absence , were particularly welcome , and she was eagerly expressing her surprieat their sudden return home , which , as their own carriage had not fetched them , she should have known nothing about , if she had not happened to see mr jones ' s shop boy in the street , who had told her that they were not to send any more draughts to netherfield because the miss bennets were come away , when her civility was claie towards mr collins by jane ' s introduction of him .
he was then , he said , on his way to longbourn on purpose to inquieafter her .
wickham will soon be gone ; and therefore it will not signify to anybody here , what he really is .
but when the gentlemen entered , jane was no longer the first object .
with proper civilities the ladies then withdrew ; all of them equally surprie to find that he meditated a quick return .
" you cannot be too much on your guard .
" in such cases , a woman has not often much beauty to think of . "
you never see a fault in any body .
as they walked home , elizabeth related to jane what she had seen pass between the two gentlemen ; but though jane would have defended either or both , had they appeared to be wrong , she could no more explain such behaviour than her sister .
what a fiething for our girls ! "
but i can guess how it was ; every body says that he is ate up with prie and i dare say he had heard somehow that mr long does not keep a carriage , and had come to the ball in a hack chaie "
she was sure they should be married some tieor other , and it did not much signify when .
i thought miss elizabeth bennet looked remarkably well , when she came into the room this morning .
catherieand lydia had information for them of a different sort .
mr darcy , who never looks at any woman but to see a blemish , and who probably never looked at _you_ in his lie
it is a pity that great ladies in general are not more lieher .
i must find mr gardie this moment , on busies that cannot be delayed ; i have not an instant to lose . "
how little did you tell me of what passed at pemberley and lambton !
" in point of composition , " said mary , " his letter does not seem defectie
yet tieand her aunt moved slowly - and her patience and her ies were nearly worn out before the tête - à - tête was over .
that the wish of giving happies to you , might add force to the other inducements which led me on , i shall not attempt to deny .
cried mr gardie .
i shall be glad to have the library to myself as soon as may be . "
she was teazed by mr collins , who continued most perseveringly by her sie and though he could not prevail with her to dance with him again , put it out of her power to dance with others .
these bitter accusations might have been suppressed , had i with greater policy concealed my struggles , and flattered you into the belief of my being impelled by unqualified , unalloyed inclination ; by reason , by reflection , by every thing .
a lady ' s imagination is very rapid ; it jumps from admiration to love , from love to matrimony in a moment .
or , why did he thus come a day before he was expected ?
however , your coming just at this tieis the greatest of comforts , and i am very glad to hear what you tell us , of long sleeves . "
i cannot quieagree with you _there_ .
she expressed her gratitude again , but it was too painful a subject to each , to be dwelt on farther .
" i beg you would not put it into lizzy ' s head to be vexed by his ill treatment ; for he is such a disagreeable man that it would be quite a misfortune to be lie by him .
we have judged it best , that my niece should be married from this house , of which i hope you will approve .
he replied , and was again siet .
bingley was every thing that was charming , except the professed lover of her daughter .
miss darcy looked as if she wished for courage enough to join in it ; and sometie did venture a short sentence , when there was least danger of its being heard .
who could have imagie that we should receiean invitation to diethere ( an invitation moreover including the whole party ) so immediately after your arrival ! "
it is mr wickham ' s intention to go into the regulars ; and , among his former friends , there are still some who are able and willing to assist him in the army .
it is really too great a violation of decency , honour , and interest , for him to be guilty of it .
" and pray may i ask ? "
in this danger kitty is also comprehended .
by mr hurst and miss bingley , they were notie only by a curtsey ; and on their being seated , a pause , awkward as such pauses must always be , succeeded for a few moments .
i have told miss bennet several tie , that she will never play really well , unless she practie more ; and though mr collins has no instrument , she is very welcome , as i have often told her , to come to rosings every day , and play on the piano forte in mr jenkinson ' s room .
" he brought it with him for us to see . "
she was not sorry , however , to have the recital of them interrupted by the entrance of the lady from whom they sprung .
it was not in her nature , however , to increase her vexations , by dwelling on them .
let them triumph over us at a distance , and be satisfied . "
of what he has _particularly_ accused me i am ignorant ; but of the truth of what i shall relate , i can summon more than one witness of undoubted veracity .
she is grown so brown and coarse !
but mr gardie , though he assured her again of his earnest endeavours in the cause , could not avoid recommending moderation to her , as well in her hopes as her fears ; and , after talking with her in this manner till dinner was on table , they left her to vent all her feelings on the housekeeper , who attended , in the absence of her daughters .
but elizabeth had sources of uneasies which could not be suspected by jane , to whom she had never yet had courage to shew mr gardie ' s letter , or to relate her own change of sentiet towards him .
chapter xix
bromley , of course . - if you mention my name at the bell , you will be attended to . "
" my dearest lizzy will , i am sure , be incapable of triumphing in her better judgment , at my expence , when i confess myself to have been entiey deceie in miss bingley ' s regard for me .
but perhaps mr bingley did not take the house so much for the convenience of the neighbourhood as for his own , and we must expect him to keep or quit it on the same principle . "
she was quieamazed at her own discomposure ; but amongst other causes of disquiet , she dreaded lest the partiality of the brother should have said too much in her favour ; and more than commonly anxious to please , she naturally suspected that every power of pleasing would fail her .
except for the limie right of replacement or refund set forth in paragraph <NUMBER> . f3 , this work is provie to you ' as is ' , with no other warranties of any kind , express or implied , including but not limited to warranties of merchantability or fitness for any purpose
it was , moreover , such a promising thing for her younger daughters , as jane ' s marrying so greatly must throw them in the way of other rich men ; and lastly , it was so pleasant at her tieof lieto be able to consign her single daughters to the care of their sister , that she might not be oblie to go into company more than she lie .
but checking himself , he added in a gayer tone , " is it in address that he improves ?
" it is well .
" oh , lord !
" unless where they liewomen of fortune , which i think they very often do . "
section <NUMBER> .
such a change in a man of so much prie excie not only astonishment but gratitude - for to love , ardent love , it must be attributed ; and as such its impression on her was of a sort to be encouraged , as by no means unpleasing , though it could not be exactly defie .
his anxiety for jane was eviet , and his attentions to herself most pleasing , and they prevented her feeling herself so much an intruder as she believed she was consieed by the others .
" i cannot see that london has any great advantage over the country for my part , except the shops and public places .
there is a mixture of servility and self importance in his letter , which promie well .
said mr gardie .
to his wiehe was very little otherwieindebted , than as her ignorance and folly had contributed to his amusement .
georgiana had the highest opinion in the world of elizabeth ; though at first she often listened with an astonishment bordering on alarm , at her liey , sportie manner of talking to her brother .
the rain continued the whole evening without intermission ; jane certainly could not come back .
two inferences , however , were plainly deduced from the whole ; one , that elizabeth was the real cause of all the mischief ; and the other , that she herself had been barbarously used by them all ; and on these two points she principally dwelt during the rest of the day .
was a wonder which introduced the discussion of _their_ affairs .
if i were not afraid of judging harshly , i should be almost tempted to say , that there is a strong appearance of duplicity in all this .
" i never saw a more promising inclination .
chapter vii
you both did as much as you could , in planning the marriage .
he was my godfather , and excessiey attached to me .
his debts are to be paid , amounting , i believe , to consieably more than a thousand pounds , another thousand in addition to her own settled upon _her_ , and his commission purchased .
their powers of conversation were consieable .
i am sure i sha ' nt get a wink of sleep all night .
in the afternoon lydia was urgent with the rest of the girls to walk to meryton and see how every body went on ; but elizabeth steadily opposed the scheme .
and then when we came away it was such fun !
they were in fact very fieladies ; not deficient in good humour when they were pleased , nor in the power of being agreeable where they chose it ; but proud and conceie .
volunteers and financial support to provievolunteers with the assistance they need are critical to reaching project gutenberg tm ' s goals and ensuring that the project gutenberg tm collection will remain freely available for generations to come .
" she had better have stayed at home , " cried elizabeth ; " perhaps she _meant_ well , but , under such a misfortune as this , one cannot see too little of one ' s neighbours .
chapter xvii
mr bennet ' s eyes sparkled with pleasure , and she was eagerly calling out , whieher daughter read , " well , jane , who is it from ?
i
<NUMBER> .
elizabeth looked expressiey at lydia ; but she , who never heard nor saw any thing of which she chose to be insensible , gaily continued , " oh !
lydia talked incessantly of lottery tickets , of the fish she had lost and the fish she had won , and mr collins , in describing the civility of mr and mr philips , protesting that he did not in the least regard his losses at whist , enumerating all the dishes at supper , and repeatedly fearing that he crouded his cousins , had more to say than he could well manage before the carriage stopped at longbourn house .
- cried elizabeth .
his plan did not vary on seeing them . - miss bennet ' s lovely face confirmed his views , and established all his strictest notions of what was due to seniority ; and for the first evening _she_ was his settled choie
the far and the near must be relatie and depend on many varying circumstances .
i am not qualified to form one .
" i have sent for you on an affair of importance .
what could she mean by it ?
in a short tie i shall have a daughter married .
i do assure you that i am not one of those young ladies ( if such young ladies there are ) who are so daring as to risk their happies on the chance of being asked a second tie
" what think you of _this_ sentence , my dear lizzy ? "
their eyes were immediately wandering up in the street in quest of the offies , and nothing less than a very smart bonnet indeed , or a really new muslin in a shop window , could recal them .
she could not determiehow her mother would take it ; sometie doubting whether all his wealth and grandeur would be enough to overcome her abhorrence of the man .
" i hope not . "
" ah !
gardiner "
bingley of course returned with him to dinner ; and in the evening mr bennet ' s invention was again at work to get every body away from him and her daughter .
his former acquaintance had been numerous ; but since he had been in the militia , it did not appear that he was on terms of particular friendship with any of them .
do any thing rather than marry without affection .
" miss elizabeth bennet ! "
i hope she will turn out well . "
" something very much to the purpose of course .
" you take an eager interest in that gentleman ' s concerns , " said darcy in a less tranquil tone , and with a heightened colour .
i will not encourage the impudence of either , by receiving them at longbourn . "
it was very little less .
not a syllable had ever reached her of miss darcy ' s meditated elopement .
miss bingley is to liewith her brother and keep his house ; and i am much mistaken if we shall not find a very charming neighbour in her . "
your own heart , your own conscience , must tell you why i come . "
the insipidity and yet the noie the nothingness and yet the self importance of all these people ! - what would i gieto hear your strictures on them ! "
at such a moment , the arrival of her friend was a sincere pleasure to elizabeth , though in the course of their meetings she must sometie think the pleasure dearly bought , when she saw mr darcy exposed to all the parading and obsequious civility of her husband .
" miss bingley , " said he , " has gie me credit for more than can be .
he was the proudest , most disagreeable man in the world , and every body hoped that he would never come there again .
our situation with regard to lady catheries family is indeed the sort of extraordinary advantage and blessing which few can boast .
bingley replied that he did , and made his congratulations .
in an hurried manner he immediately began an enquiry after her health , imputing his visit to a wish of hearing that she were better .
the tumult of her mind was now painfully great .
what do you keep winking at me for ?
colonel fitzwilliam seemed really glad to see them ; any thing was a welcome relief to him at rosings ; and mr collins ' s pretty friend had moreover caught his fancy very much .
" undoubtedly , " replied darcy , to whom this remark was chiefly addressed , " there is meanness in _all_ the arts which ladies sometie condescend to employ for captivation .
have a little compassion on my nerves .
those that best pleased her , as placing his conduct in the noblest light , seemed most improbable .
" yes , she called yesterday with her father .
i declare i do not know a more aweful object than darcy , on particular occasions , and in particular places ; at his own house especially , and of a sunday evening when he has nothing to do . "
" you have insulted me , in every possible method .
this son was to join in cutting off the entail , as soon as he should be of age , and the widow and younger children would by that means be provie for .
i suppose you have heard of it ; indeed , you must have seen it in the papers .
mr wickham ' s happies and her own was per force delayed a little longer , and mr collins ' s proposal accepted with as good a grace as she could .
" you appear to me , mr darcy , to allow nothing for the influence of friendship and affection .
she felt anew the justieof mr darcy ' s objections ; and never had she before been so much disposed to pardon his interference in the views of his friend .
at least , you should not _remind_ your mother of inviting him . "
chapter xxiii
i always say that nothing is to be done in education without steady and regular instruction , and nobody but a governess can gieit .
" it may do very well for the others , " replied mr bingley ; " but i am sure it will be too much for kitty .
" _that_ will make your ladyship ' s situation at present more pitiable ; but it will have no effect on _me_ . "
she had even condescended to adviehim to marry as soon as he could , provie he chose with discretion ; and had once paid him a visit in his humble parsonage ; where she had perfectly approved all the alterations he had been making , and had even vouchsafed to suggest some herself , - some shelves in the closets up stairs .
this accounted to elizabeth for mr wickham ' s being among them .
" perhaps he must , if he sees enough of her .
they agreed that mr bennet should only hear of the departure of the family , without being alarmed on the score of the gentleman ' s conduct ; but even this partial communication gave her a great deal of concern , and she bewaie it as exceedingly unlucky that the ladies should happen to go away , just as they were all getting so intimate together .
the vague and unsettled suspicions which uncertainty had produced of what mr darcy might have been doing to forward her sister ' s match , which she had feared to encourage , as an exertion of goodness too great to be probable , and at the same tiedreaded to be just , from the pain of obligation , were proved beyond their greatest extent to be true !
" ' tis an etiquette i despie " said he .
she was no sooner in possession of it , than hurrying into the little copse , where she was least liey to be interrupted , she sat down on one of the benches , and prepared to be happy ; for the length of the letter convinced her that it did not contain a denial .
mr bennet missed his second daughter exceedingly ; his affection for her drew him oftener from home than any thing else could do .
but prie where there is a real superiority of mind , priewill be always under good regulation . "
elizabeth tried to be dieted by them ; but all sense of pleasure was lost in shame .
elizabeth told her the motie of her secrecy .
i appeal to mr darcy : - but let me not interrupt you , sir . - you will not thank me for detaining you from the bewitching converse of that young lady , whose bright eyes are also upbraiding me . "
" upon my word , " said her ladyship , " you gieyour opinion very deciely for so young a person . - pray , what is your age ? "
when she is secure of him , there will be leisure for falling in love as much as she chuses . "
where is your sash my dear ? "
wickham is safe . "
the two ladies were delighted to see their dear friend again , called it an age since they had met , and repeatedly asked what she had been doing with herself since their separation .
no , no , this is not liey .
nothing but concern for elizabeth could enable bingley to keep his countenance .
his belief of her sister ' s insensibility , she instantly resolved to be false , and his account of the real , the worst objections to the match , made her too angry to have any wish of doing him justie
but still he would be her husband . - without thinking highly either of men or of matrimony , marriage had always been her object ; it was the only honourable provision for well educated young women of small fortune , and however uncertain of giving happies , must be their pleasantest preservatiefrom want .
did he know of their intending to go off ?
my mother was taken ill immediately , and the whole house in such confusion ! "
we do not solicit donations in locations where we have not receie written confirmation of compliance .
resignation to ieitable evils is the duty of us all ; the peculiar duty of a young man who has been so fortunate as i have been in early preferment ; and i trust i am resigned .
thoughtlessness , want of attention to other people ' s feelings , and want of resolution , will do the busies . "
this was a sad omen of what her mother ' s behaviour to the gentleman himself might be ; and elizabeth found , that though in the certain possession of his warmest affection , and secure of her relations ' consent , there was still something to be wished for .
sir william only smie .
mr collins ' s return into hertfordshiewas no longer a matter of pleasure to mr bennet .
to be sure , you knew no actual good of me - but nobody thinks of _that_ when they fall in love . "
she looked at her father to entreat his interference , lest mary should be singing all night .
the housekeeper came forward , and told them it was the picture of a young gentleman , the son of her late master ' s steward , who had been brought up by him at his own expence . - " he is now gone into the army , " she added , " but i am afraid he has turned out very wild . "
oh , sister !
there is no indignity so abhorrent to their feelings ! "
mary petitioned for the use of the library at netherfield ; and kitty begged very hard for a few balls there every winter .
darcy , as well as elizabeth , really loved them ; and they were both ever sensible of the warmest gratitude towards the persons who , by bringing her into derbyshie had been the means of uniting them .
" the person of whom i speak , is a gentleman and a stranger . "
it was an earnest , steadfast gaze , but she often doubted whether there were much admiration in it , and sometie it seemed nothing but absence of mind .
" is your master much at pemberley in the course of the year ? "
see paragraph <NUMBER> . c below .
that he should even speak to her was amazing ! - but to speak with such civility , to enquieafter her family !
how can they suit each other ? - do you know mr
" i cannot believe it .
" i leave it to yourself to determie " said mr bennet .
mr darcy was eyeing him with unrestraie wonder , and when at last mr collins allowed him tieto speak , replied with an air of distant civility .
her fellow travellers the next day , were not of a kind to make her think him less agreeable .
you may have drawn him in . "
but i cannot - i have never desie your good opinion , and you have certainly bestowed it most unwillingly .
and now do , when you get to town , find them out , wherever they may be ; and if they are not married already , _make_ them marry .
a great many changes have happened in the neighbourhood , since you went away .
thus much for my general intention in favour of matrimony ; it remains to be told why my views were dieted to longbourn instead of my own neighbourhood , where i assure you there are many amiable young women .
she had obtaie private intelliece that mr darcy did not wish for cards ; and mr hurst soon found even his open petition rejected .
bingley was all grateful pleasure , and he readily engaged for taking the earliest opportunity of waiting on her , after his return from london , whither he was oblie to go the next day for a short tie
mr bennet indeed said little ; but the ladies were ready enough to talk , and mr collins seemed neither in need of encouragement , nor inclie to be siet himself .
" it must not be thought of .
" and this is your real opinion !
they may be modified and printed and gie away - you may do practically anything with public domain ebooks .
that among his own connections he was esteemed and valued - that even wickham had allowed him merit as a brother , and that she had often heard him speak so affectionately of his sister as to prove him capable of _some_ amiable feeling .
and i think you will agree with me , in consieing a removal from that corps as highly advisable , both on his account and my niece ' s .
miss darcy , though with a diffiece which marked her little in the habit of giving invitations , readily obeyed .
" if i have , i shall be the last person to confess it . "
i am extremely glad that you have such pleasant accounts from our friends at hunsford .
" then , " observed elizabeth , " you must comprehend a great deal in your ie of an accomplished woman . "
elizabeth could hardly help laughing at so convenient a proposal ; yet was really vexed that her mother should be always giving him such an epithet .
" but if a woman is partial to a man , and does not endeavour to conceal it , he must find it out . "
cried elizabeth , darting from her seat as she finished the letter , in eagerness to follow him , without losing a moment of the tieso precious ; but as she reached the door , it was opened by a servant , and mr darcy appeared .
" mama , " cried lydia , " my aunt says that colonel forster and captain carter do not go so often to miss watson ' s as they did when they first came ; she sees them now very often standing in clarke ' s library . "
you have sense , and we all expect you to use it .
they were forced to conclude , that he had no pleasing intelliece to send , but even of _that_ they would have been glad to be certain .
i am sure you will be very comfortable there .
his coming into the country at all , is a most insolent thing indeed , and i wonder how he could presume to do it .
elizabeth soon perceie that though this great lady was not in the commission of the peace for the county , she was a most actiemagistrate in her own parish , the minutest concerns of which were carried to her by mr collins ; and whenever any of the cottagers were disposed to be quarrelsome , discontented or too poor , she sallied forth into the village to settle their differences , siece their complaints , and scold them into harmony and plenty .
indeed , eliza , you will be as welcome to me as either of them . "
that his two sisters and mr darcy , however , should have such an opportunity of ridiculing her relations was bad enough , and she could not determiewhether the siet contempt of the gentleman , or the insolent smie of the ladies , were more intolerable .
this is the last tiei shall ever remember it myself . "
she will be down in a moment i dare say . "
lydia was occasionally a visitor there , when her husband was gone to enjoy himself in london or bath ; and with the bingleys they both of them frequently staid so long , that even bingley ' s good humour was overcome , and he proceeded so far as to _talk_ of giving them a hint to be gone .
what i have to say relates to poor lydia .
she wrote cheerfully , seemed surrounded with comforts , and mentioned nothing which she could not praie
his accompanying them was a double advantage ; she felt all the compliet it offered to herself , and it was most acceptable as an occasion of introducing him to her father and mother .
is it true ? "
" i am sorry you think so ; but if that be the case , there can at least be no want of subject . - we may compare our different opinions . "
" indeed i am .
for my part , i am determie never to speak of it again to anybody .
" but , " she continued , recollecting herself , " as we know none of the particulars , it is not fair to condemn him .
_my_ father began liein the profession which your uncle , mr philips , appears to do so much credit to - but he gave up every thing to be of use to the late mr darcy , and devoted all his tieto the care of the pemberley property .
you may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing access to or distributing project gutenberg tm electronic works provie that - you pay a royalty fee of <NUMBER> of the gross profits you deriefrom the use of project gutenberg tm works calculated using the method you already use to calculate your applicable taxes .
darcy ? "
but do not be cast down .
she could not think of darcy ' s leaving kent , without remembering that his cousin was to go with him ; but colonel fitzwilliam had made it clear that he had no intentions at all , and agreeable as he was , she did not mean to be unhappy about him .
ignorant as you previously were of every thing concerning either , detection could not be in your power , and suspicion certainly not in your inclination .
you could not have met with a person more capable of giving you certain information on that head than myself - for i have been connected with his family in a particular manner from my infancy . "
" no - i do not know that you were wrong in saying what you did . "
he inquie how far netherfield was from meryton ; and , after receiving her answer , asked in an hesitating manner how long mr darcy had been staying there .
chapter ix
" i am not now to learn , " replied mr collins , with a formal wave of the hand , " that it is usual with young ladies to reject the addresses of the man whom they secretly mean to accept , when he first applies for their favour ; and that sometie the refusal is repeated a second or even a third tie
and now nothing remains for me but to assure you in the most animated language of the violence of my affection .
" but it must very materially lessen their chance of marrying men of any consieation in the world , " replied darcy .
" caroliedeciely says that none of the party will return into hertfordshiethis winter .
" no , i should have turned in a moment . "
in ran mr bennet to her daughter ' s room , in her dressing gown , and with her hair half finished , crying out , " my dear jane , make haste and hurry down .
but to be candid without ostentation or design - to take the good of every body ' s character and make it still better , and say nothing of the bad - belongs to you alone .
had not my own feelings decie against you , had they been indifferent , or had they even been favourable , do you think that any consieation would tempt me to accept the man , who has been the means of ruining , perhaps for ever , the happies of a most beloved sister ? "
lady lucas could not be insensible of triumph on being able to retort on mr bennet the comfort of having a daughter well married ; and she called at longbourn rather oftener than usual to say how happy she was , though mr bennet ' s sour looks and ill natured remarks might have been enough to driehappies away .
his sisters were fiewomen , with an air of decie fashion .
elizabeth lifted up her eyes in amazement , but was too much oppressed to make any reply .
" miss bennet , " replied her ladyship , in an angry tone , " you ought to know , that i am not to be trifled with .
vanity and prieare different things , though the words are often used synonimously .
" if we are ever able to learn what wickham ' s debts have been , " said elizabeth , " and how much is settled on his sieon our sister , we shall exactly know what mr gardie has done for them , because wickham has not sixpence of his own .
" he made a little mistake to be sure ; but it is to the credit of his modesty . "
she asked her at different tie , how many sisters she had , whether they were older or younger than herself , whether any of them were liey to be married , whether they were handsome , where they had been educated , what carriage her father kept , and what had been her mother ' s maie name ? - elizabeth felt all the impertiece of her questions , but answered them very composedly . - lady catheriethen observed , " your father ' s estate is entaie on mr collins , i think .
i am no stranger to the particulars of your youngest sister ' s infamous elopement .
by this tieshe is actually with them !
mr bennet could hardly contain herself .
in the absence of jane , he always attached himself to elizabeth , for the pleasure of talking of her ; and when bingley was gone , jane constantly sought the same means of relief .
of course , we hope that you will support the project gutenberg tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by freely sharing project gutenberg tm works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the project gutenberg tm name associated with the work .
well , jane , make haste and tell us ; make haste , my love . "
mary was the only daughter who remaie at home ; and she was necessarily drawn from the pursuit of accomplishments by mr bennet ' s being quite unable to sit alone .
" on the evening before my going to london , " said he " i made a confession to him , which i believe i ought to have made long ago .
who would have thought of my meeting with - perhaps - a nephew of lady catheriede bourgh in this assembly ! - i am most thankful that the discovery is made in tiefor me to pay my respects to him , which i am now going to do , and trust he will excuse my not having done it before .
" you are quieright .
i know not what to think .
had lydia and her mother known the substance of her conference with her father , their indignation would hardly have found expression in their unie volubility .
have not you always hated him ? "
thought elizabeth .
her resistance had not injured her with the gentleman , and he was thinking of her with some complacency , when thus accosted by miss bingley , " i can guess the subject of your reverie . "
" your ' s , & c . " this letter gave elizabeth some pain ; but her spirits returned as she consieed that jane would no longer be duped , by the sister at least .
" they are wanted in the farm much oftener than i can get them . "
the note was immediately dispatched , and its contents as quickly complied with .
to mr gardie , wickham had one means of affording pleasure , unconnected with his general powers .
" _i_ never saw such a woman .
" you forget that i have made no answer .
she had ventured only one glance at darcy .
elizabeth felt herself completely taken in .
if he is satisfied with only regretting me , when he might have obtaie my affections and hand , i shall soon cease to regret him at all . "
she had fully proposed being engaged by wickham for those very dances : - and to have mr collins instead !
whiesir william was with them , mr collins devoted his mornings to driving him out in his gig , and shewing him the country ; but when he went away , the whole family returned to their usual employments , and elizabeth was thankful to find that they did not see more of her cousin by the alteration , for the chief of the tiebetween breakfast and dinner was now passed by him either at work in the garden , or in reading and writing , and looking out of window in his own book room , which fronted the road .
" this fieaccount of him , " whispered her aunt , as they walked , " is not quieconsistent with his behaviour to our poor friend . "
in her own past behaviour , there was a constant source of vexation and regret ; and in the unhappy defects of her family a subject of yet heavier chagrin .
they were of a respectable family in the north of england ; a circumstance more deeply impressed on their memories than that their brother ' s fortune and their own had been acquie by trade .
jane was so admie , nothing could be lieit .
" i know you do ; and it is _that_ which makes the wonder .
from that moment i observed my friend ' s behaviour attentiey ; and i could then perceiethat his partiality for miss bennet was beyond what i had ever witnessed in him .
after a short siece , the lady first spoke .
the feelings which , you tell me , have long prevented the acknowledgment of your regard , can have little difficulty in overcoming it after this explanation . "
elizabeth almost stared at her . - " can this be mr
they were off saturday night about twelve , as is conjectured , but were not missed till yesterday morning at eight .
elizabeth could not repress a smieat this , but she answered only by a slight inclination of the head .
you refuse to obey the claims of duty , honour , and gratitude .
" let me first see how he behaves , " said she ; " it will then be early enough for expectation . "
they had been walking about the place with some of their new friends , and were just returned to the inn to dress themselves for dining with the same family , when the sound of a carriage drew them to a window , and they saw a gentleman and lady in a curricle , driving up the street .
till i was in kent , and saw so much both of mr darcy and his relation , colonel fitzwilliam , i was ignorant of the truth myself .
she could not yet recover from the surprieof what had happened ; it was impossible to think of any thing else , and totally indisposed for employment , she resolved soon after breakfast to indulge herself in air and exercie
very little was said by either ; kitty was too much afraid of him to talk ; elizabeth was secretly forming a desperate resolution ; and perhaps he might be doing the same .
she follows him to town in the hope of keeping him there , and tries to persuade you that he does not care about you . "
cried elizabeth , " i am excessiey dieted .
i told my sister philips so the other day .
but it ended in nothing , and i will not be sent on a fool ' s errand again . "
her figure was elegant , and she walked well ; - but darcy , at whom it was all aie , was still inflexibly studious .
the distance is nothing , when one has a motie only three mie .
in describing to her all the grandeur of lady catherieand her mansion , with occasional digressions in praieof his own humble abode , and the improvements it was receiving , he was happily employed until the gentlemen joie them ; and he found in mr philips a very attentive listener , whose opinion of his consequence increased with what she heard , and who was resolving to retail it all among her neighbours as soon as she could .
it would have suie me in every respect . "
" i knew , " said he , " that what i wrote must gieyou pain , but it was necessary .
she has known him only a fortnight .
people do not die of little trifling colds .
the gardies staid a week at longbourn ; and what with the philipses , the lucases , and the offies , there was not a day without its engagement .
elizabeth was exceedingly pleased with this proposal , and felt persuaded of her sister ' s ready acquiescence .
elizabeth , on her sie had much to do .
jane shook her head .
" which do you mean ? "
since her being at lambton , she had heard that miss darcy was exceedingly proud ; but the observation of a very few minutes convinced her , that she was only exceedingly shy .
she accounted for it , however , by supposing that her last letter to her friend from longbourn , had by some acciet been lost .
when the tea things were removed , and the card tables placed , the ladies all rose , and elizabeth was then hoping to be soon joie by him , when all her views were overthrown , by seeing him fall a victim to her mother ' s rapacity for whist players , and in a few moments after seated with the rest of the party .
they had not been long together , before darcy told her that bingley was also coming to wait on her ; and she had barely tieto express her satisfaction , and prepare for such a visitor , when bingley ' s quick step was heard on the stairs , and in a moment he entered the room .
when elizabeth had rejoie over wickham ' s departure , she found little other cause for satisfaction in the loss of the regiet .
i never saw such a long chin in my lie
miss bennet paused a little and then replied , " surely there can be no occasion for exposing him so dreadfully .
said she .
" i _did_ hear , too , that there was a tie when sermon making was not so palatable to you as it seems to be at present ; that you actually declared your resolution of never taking orders , and that the busies had been compromie accordingly . "
each felt for the other , and of course for themselves ; and their mother talked on , of her dislieof mr darcy , and her resolution to be civil to him only as mr bingley ' s friend , without being heard by either of them .
his principal object must be , to discover the number of the hackney coach which took them from clapham .
they saw him often , and to his other recommendations was now added that of general unreserve .
but she is perfectly amiable , and often condescends to drieby my humble abode in her little phaeton and ponies . "
he saw wickham , and afterwards insisted on seeing lydia .
she studied every sentence : and her feelings towards its wrie were at tie wiey different .
every body declared that he was the wickedest young man in the world ; and every body began to find out , that they had always distrusted the appearance of his goodness .
two obstacles of the fiebeing thus removed , mr bennet sat looking and winking at elizabeth and catheriefor a consieable tie without making any impression on them .
" my object _then_ , " replied darcy , " was to shew you , by every civility in my power , that i was not so mean as to resent the past ; and i hoped to obtain your forgieess , to lessen your ill opinion , by letting you see that your reproofs had been attended to .
" you must not blame my aunt .
the boy protested that she should not ; she continued to declare that she would , and the argument ended only with the visit .
i am not equal to it .
she was not equal , however , to much conversation , and when miss bingley left them together , could attempt little besieexpressions of gratitude for the extraordinary kindness she was treated with .
but she had never felt so strongly as now , the disadvantages which must attend the children of so unsuitable a marriage , nor ever been so fully aware of the evils arising from so ill judged a dietion of talents ; talents which rightly used , might at least have preserved the respectability of his daughters , even if incapable of enlarging the mind of his wie
and even mary could assure her family that she had no disinclination for it .
the sisters , on hearing this , repeated three or four tie how much they were grieved , how shocking it was to have a bad cold , and how excessiey they dislie being ill themselves ; and then thought no more of the matter : and their indifference towards jane when not immediately before them , restored elizabeth to the enjoyment of all her original dislie
the surprieof such an application was great indeed ; it was too great for her to know in what manner she acceded to it .
" i was certainly very far from expecting them to make so strong an impression .
on entering the drawing room she found the whole party at loo , and was immediately invie to join them ; but suspecting them to be playing high she declie it , and making her sister the excuse , said she would amuse herself for the short tieshe could stay below with a book .
mr bennet accepted the challenge , observing that he acted very wiey in leaving the girls to their own trifling amusements .
chapter ix
" perfectly so - i thank you . "
the letter was to this effect : " my dear lizzy , " i wish you joy .
elizabeth soon observed , and instantly understood it .
i remember the tiewhen i lie a red coat myself very well - and indeed so i do still at my heart ; and if a smart young colonel , with fieor six thousand a year , should want one of my girls , i shall not say nay to him ; and i thought colonel forster looked very becoming the other night at sir william ' s in his regietals . "
on the contrary every particular relative to his sister , was meant to be kept as much as possible to myself ; and if i endeavour to undeceiepeople as to the rest of his conduct , who will believe me ?
had elizabeth ' s opinion been all drawn from her own family , she could not have formed a very pleasing picture of conjugal felicity or domestic comfort .
but as it is - you must not let your fancy run away with you .
elizabeth loved absurdities , but she had known sir william ' s too long .
" no , indeed , i did not . - i knew nothing at all of lady catheries connections .
" i believe she did - and i am sure she could not have bestowed her kindness on a more grateful object . "
if your abhorrence of _me_ should make _my_ assertions valueless , you cannot be prevented by the same cause from confiding in my cousin ; and that there may be the possibility of consulting him , i shall endeavour to find some opportunity of putting this letter in your hands in the course of the morning .
mr gardie gave her the particulars also of miss bingley ' s visit in gracechurch street , and repeated conversations occurring at different tie between jane and herself , which proved that the former had , from her heart , gie up the acquaintance .
he had been some days in town , before he was able to discover them ; but he had something to diet his search , which was more than _we_ had ; and the consciousness of this , was another reason for his resolving to follow us .
or under what misrepresentation , can you here impose upon others ? "
had you not been really amiable you would have hated me for it ; but in spieof the pains you took to disguieyourself , your feelings were always noble and just ; and in your heart , you thoroughly despie the persons who so assiduously courted you .
it is something to think of , and gie her a sort of distinction among her companions .
they could descriean entertainment with accuracy , relate an anecdote with humour , and laugh at their acquaintance with spirit .
she is on her road somewhere , i dare say , and so passing through meryton , thought she might as well call on you .
i must speak to hill , this moment . "
" la !
perhaps he had been civil , only because he felt himself at ease ; yet there had been _that_ in his voie which was not lieease .
" do not gieway to useless alarm , " added he , " though it is right to be prepared for the worst , there is no occasion to look on it as certain .
what he told me was merely this ; that he congratulated himself on having lately saved a friend from the inconveniences of a most imprudent marriage , but without mentioning names or any other particulars , and i only suspected it to be bingley from believing him the kind of young man to get into a scrape of that sort , and from knowing them to have been together the whole of last summer . "
" if you were to gieme forty such men , i never could be so happy as you .
even elizabeth might have found some trial of her patience in weather , which totally suspended the improvement of her acquaintance with mr wickham ; and nothing less than a dance on tuesday , could have made such a friday , saturday , sunday and monday , endurable to kitty and lydia .
darcy was fie in astonishment .
at present i will say nothing about it . "
bingley . - it was an animating subject , and mr bennet seemed incapable of fatigue whieenumerating the advantages of the match .
but it has been the study of my lieto avoid those weaknesses which often expose a strong understanding to ridicule . "
contact the foundation as set forth in section <NUMBER> below .
" of what are you talking ? "
she was very equal therefore to address mr bingley on the subject of the ball , and abruptly reminded him of his promie adding , that it would be the most shameful thing in the world if he did not keep it .
" but , my dear elizabeth , " she added , " what sort of girl is miss king ?
he knows of my being in town , i am certain , from something she said herself ; and yet it should seem by her manner of talking , as if she wanted to persuade herself that he is really partial to miss darcy .
" very true ; and if i had my will , we should .
this was agreed to , and mr philips protested that they would have a niecomfortable noisy game of lottery tickets , and a little bit of hot supper afterwards .
into _one_ house in this neighbourhood , they shall never have admittance .
" and _your_ defect is a propensity to hate every body . "
in a doleful voiemr bennet thus began the projected conversation . - " oh !
mr collins , meanwhie was meditating in solitude on what had passed .
lady lucas began dietly to calculate with more interest than the matter had ever excie before , how many years longer mr bennet was liey to lie and sir william gave it as his decie opinion , that whenever mr collins should be in possession of the longbourn estate , it would be highly expedient that both he and his wife should make their appearance at st james ' s .
so , do not put yourself to inconvenience . "
elizabeth related to jane the next day , what had passed between mr wickham and herself .
additional terms will be linked to the project gutenberg tm liese for all works posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work .
i must beg , therefore , to be importuned no farther on the subject . "
" neither duty , nor honour , nor gratitude , " replied elizabeth , " have any possible claim on me , in the present instance .
mr darcy asked him why he had not married your sister at once .
" yes , my youngest is not sixteen .
he heard her with astonishment .
wickham , lydia , were all forgotten .
he could number the fields in every dietion , and could tell how many trees there were in the most distant clump .
" oh !
mr wickham !
her lieies had been never worse tie .
elizabeth dared not lift up her eyes .
what an agreeable man sir william is , mr bingley - is not he ?
indeed he has no improper prie
oh !
the paling of rosings park was their boundary on one sie
but may we not hope that the period of future happies to which miss bingley looks forward , may arrieearlier than she is aware , and that the delightful intercourse you have known as friends , will be renewed with yet greater satisfaction as sisters ? - mr
it is as often applied to feelings which ariefrom an half hour ' s acquaintance , as to a real , strong attachment .
his character was to speak for itself .
she resolved to gieher the information herself , and therefore charged mr collins when he returned to longbourn to dinner , to drop no hint of what had passed before any of the family .
" _mr
" because honour , decorum , prudence , nay , interest , forbid it .
regard for my sister ' s credit and feelings prevented any public exposure , but i wrote to mr wickham , who left the place immediately , and mr younge was of course removed from her charge .
elizabeth immediately recognising the liey , guessed what it meant , and imparted no small degree of surprise to her relations , by acquainting them with the honour which she expected .
the ie soon reached to conviction , as she observed his increasing civilities toward herself , and heard his frequent attempt at a compliet on her wit and vivacity ; and though more astonished than gratified herself , by this effect of her charms , it was not long before her mother gave her to understand that the probability of their marriage was exceedingly agreeable to _her_ .
mr bingley was unaffectedly civil in his answer , and forced his younger sister to be civil also , and say what the occasion requie .
but against this , there were objections ; and she finally resolved that it could be the last resource , if her private enquiries as to the absence of the family , were unfavourably answered .
bingley . "
" one of them does . "
his temptation is not adequate to the risk . "
i speak nothing but the truth .
but as elizabeth could not receiecomfort from any such expectation , she made no answer .
" but does lydia know nothing of this ?
mr bennet said only , " nonsense , nonsense ! "
" you are joking , lizzy .
" _that_ is his notion of christian forgieess !
" it is difficult indeed - it is distressing . - one does not know what to think . "
who is to fight wickham , and make him marry her , if he comes away ? "
elizabeth was surprie , however , that wickham should consent to such a scheme , and , had she consulted only her own inclination , any meeting with him would have been the last object of her wishes .
elizabeth could not but be pleased , could not but triumph .
but mr gardie could not be seen , and mr darcy found , on further enquiry , that your father was still with him , but would quit town the next morning .
" what you ask , " said elizabeth , " is no sacrifieon my sie and mr darcy had much better finish his letter . "
" what think you of books ? "
" remember , eliza , that he does not know jane ' s disposition as you do . "
how is half such a sum to be repaid ? "
for what do we lie but to make sport for our neighbours , and laugh at them in our turn ? "
she did indeed .
oh , lord !
but amidst your concern for the defects of your nearest relations , and your displeasure at this representation of them , let it gieyou consolation to consie that , to have conducted yourselves so as to avoid any share of the liecensure , is praieno less generally bestowed on you and your eldest sister , than it is honourable to the sense and disposition of both . - i will only say farther , that from what passed that evening , my opinion of all parties was confirmed , and every inducement heightened , which could have led me before , to preserve my friend from what i esteemed a most unhappy connection . - he left netherfield for london , on the day following , as you , i am certain , remember , with the design of soon returning . - the part which i acted , is now to be explaie . - his sisters ' uneasies had been equally excie with my own ; our coinciece of feeling was soon discovered ; and , aliesensible that no tiewas to be lost in detaching their brother , we shortly resolved on joining him dietly in london . - we accordingly went - and there i readily engaged in the offieof pointing out to my friend , the certain evils of such a choie - i descrie , and enforced them earnestly . - but , however this remonstrance might have staggered or delayed his determination , i do not suppose that it would ultimately have prevented the marriage , had it not been seconded by the assurance which i hesitated not in giving , of your sister ' s indifference .
as yet , she cannot even be certain of the degree of her own regard , nor of its reasonableness .
" the country , " said darcy , " can in general supply but few subjects for such a study .
and his sisters are charming women .
it is not that i do not believe _my_ fingers as capable as any other woman ' s of superior execution . "
unwilling as she was to admit an ie so destructieof jane ' s happies , and so dishonourable to the stability of her lover , she could not prevent its frequently recurring .
" i have not a doubt of mr bingley ' s sincerity , " said elizabeth warmly ; " but you must excuse my not being convinced by assurances only .
i know not in what manner , under what form of falsehood he has imposed on you ; but his success is not perhaps to be wondered at .
as for elizabeth herself , this invitation was so far from exciting in her the same feelings as in her mother and lydia , that she consieed it as the death warrant of all possibility of common sense for the latter ; and detestable as such a step must make her were it known , she could not help secretly advising her father not to let her go .
" how should you have lie making sermons ? "
" i might as well enquie " replied she , " why with so eviet a design of offending and insulting me , you chose to tell me that you lie me against your will , against your reason , and even against your character ?
who should suffer but myself ?
who _could_ about such a nasty little freckled thing ? "
pray make haste and come into the dining room , for there is such a sight to be seen !
i do not wish to avoid the walk .
let me do it without farther loss of tie
" all this she must possess , " added darcy , " and to all this she must yet add something more substantial , in the improvement of her mind by extensiereading . "
but do you always wriesuch charming long letters to her , mr
mr bennet and her daughters apologie most civilly for lydia ' s interruption , and promie that it should not occur again , if he would resume his book ; but mr collins , after assuring them that he bore his young cousin no ill will , and should never resent her behaviour as any affront , seated himself at another table with mr bennet , and prepared for backgammon .
how wickham and lydia were to be supported in tolerable independence , she could not imagie
her father , contented with laughing at them , would never exert himself to restrain the wild giddies of his youngest daughters ; and her mother , with manners so far from right herself , was entiey insensible of the evil .
you must allow me to tell you how ardently i admieand love you . "
about ten or a dozen years ago , before her marriage , she had spent a consieable tiein that very part of derbyshie to which he belonged .
" no , lizzy , that is what i do _not_ choose .
" and do you impute it to either of those ? "
my dear lydia , " she cried , " when shall we meet again ? "
our importance , our respectability in the world , must be affected by the wild volatility , the assurance and disdain of all restraint which mark lydia ' s character .
" that is capital , " added her sister , and they both laughed heartily .
" and they _must_ marry !
i am perfectly satisfied from what his manners now are , that he never had any design of engaging my affection .
no , lizzy , let me once in my liefeel how much i have been to blame .
when she thought of her mother indeed , her confiece gave way a little , but she would not allow that any objections _there_ had material weight with mr darcy , whose prie she was convinced , would receiea deeper wound from the want of importance in his friend ' s connections , than from their want of sense ; and she was quiedecie at last , that he had been partly governed by this worst kind of prie and partly by the wish of retaining mr bingley for his sister .
have you had any flirting ?
the hill , crowned with wood , from which they had descended , receiving increased abruptness from the distance , was a beautiful object .
in every thing else she is as good natured a girl as ever lie .
" la !
" yes , ma ' am , that he was indeed ; and his son will be just liehim - just as affable to the poor . "
he had always intended to visit him , though to the last always assuring his wiethat he should not go ; and till the evening after the visit was paid , she had no knowledge of it .
elizabeth receie them with all the forbearance of civility ; and at the request of the gentlemen remaie at the instrument till her ladyship ' s carriage was ready to take them all home .
mr collins was not a sensible man , and the deficiency of nature had been but little assisted by education or society ; the greatest part of his liehaving been spent under the guidance of an illieate and miely father ; and though he belonged to one of the uniesities , he had merely kept the necessary terms , without forming at it any useful acquaintance .
again his astonishment was obvious ; and he looked at her with an expression of mingled incredulity and mortification .
every day added something to their knowledge of the offies ' names and connections .
her coming there was the most unfortunate , the most ill judged thing in the world !
i shall then gieover every expectation , every wish of his constancy .
mr long said so too , for i asked her whether you did not .
said he ; " that is rather singular . "
send back your answer as soon as you can , and be careful to wrieexplicitly .
this is my advie
you do not look well .
" oh ! - your uncle ! - he keeps a man servant , does he ? - i am very glad you have somebody who thinks of those things .
he was growing quite inattentieto other people , and wholly engrossed by her .
his debts to be discharged , and something still to remain !
with this answer elizabeth was forced to be content ; but her own opinion continued the same , and she left him disappointed and sorry .
mr darcy related the mistake which had occasioned his intruding on miss bennet , and after sitting a few minutes longer without saying much to any body , went away .
i should be sorry , you know , to think ill of a young man who has lie so long in derbyshie "
" mr bennet , how can you abuse your own children in such a way ?
" an unhappy alternatieis before you , elizabeth .
how odious i should think them ! "
" oh !
at our tieof lie it is not so pleasant i can tell you , to be making new acquaintance every day ; but for your sakes , we would do any thing .
at length however mr bennet had no more to say ; and lady lucas , who had been long yawning at the repetition of delights which she saw no lieihood of sharing , was left to the comforts of cold ham and chicken .
her niece was , therefore , oblie to submit , and they took their way towards the house on the opposiesieof the rie , in the nearest dietion ; but their progress was slow , for mr gardie , though seldom able to indulge the taste , was very fond of fishing , and was so much engaged in watching the occasional appearance of some trout in the water , and talking to the man about them , that he advanced but little .
" no , she would go home .
fiedaughters successiey entered the world , but yet the son was to come ; and mr bennet , for many years after lydia ' s birth , had been certain that he would .
he arranges the busies just as he pleases . "
but his anger , i am persuaded , lasted no longer than he remaie in any doubt of your sister ' s sentiets .
but that is nothing to us .
i want to talk very seriously .
there are few people whom i really love , and still fewer of whom i think well .
elizabeth quietly answered " undoubtedly ; " - and after an awkward pause , they returned to the rest of the family .
darcy . "
mr gardie went away in all the perplexity about elizabeth and her derbyshiefriend , that had attended her from that part of the world .
" well girls , " said she , as soon as they were left to themselves , " what say you to the day ?
" why did not you all learn ? - you ought all to have learned .
she has no money , no connections , nothing that can tempt him to - she is lost for ever . "
bingley intended it lieie and sometie made choieof his county ; but as he was now provie with a good house and the liety of a manor , it was doubtful to many of those who best knew the easies of his temper , whether he might not spend the remainder of his days at netherfield , and leave the next generation to purchase .
did you , on reading it , gieany credit to its contents ? "
but do not imagieit was from any silly cause .
miss bingley ' s civility to elizabeth increased at last very rapidly , as well as her affection for jane ; and when they parted , after assuring the latter of the pleasure it would always gieher to see her either at longbourn or netherfield , and embracing her most tenderly , she even shook hands with the former . - elizabeth took leave of the whole party in the lieiest spirits .
see <NUMBER> - h . htm or <NUMBER> - h . zip : ( <URL> ) or ( <URL> ) images of the original pages are available through internet archie
you know not , you can scarcely conceie how they have tortured me ; - though it was some tie i confess , before i was reasonable enough to allow their justie "
charlotte had seen them from her husband ' s room , crossing the road , and immediately running into the other , told the girls what an honour they might expect , adding , " i may thank you , eliza , for this piece of civility .
" but you forget , mama , " said elizabeth , " that we shall meet him at the assemblies , and that mr long has promie to introduce him . "
mr darcy had at first scarcely allowed her to be pretty ; he had looked at her without admiration at the ball ; and when they next met , he looked at her only to criticie
this was exactly as it should be ; for the young man wanted only regietals to make him completely charming .
the girls grieved over such a number of ladies ; but were comforted the day before the ball by hearing , that instead of twelve , he had brought only six with him from london , his fiesisters and a cousin .
i was told , that not only your sister was on the point of being most advantageously married , but that _you_ , that miss elizabeth bennet , would , in all lieihood , be soon afterwards unie to my nephew , my own nephew , mr darcy .
as for wickham and lydia , their characters suffered no revolution from the marriage of her sisters .
mr darcy would never have come so soon to wait upon me . "
" it is eviet by this , " added jane , " that he comes back no more this winter . "
i should be sorry to think our friend mercenary . "
he then shut the door , and coming up to her , claie the good wishes and affection of a sister .
nothing occurred between them that could justify the hopes of his sister .
and with no one to speak to , of what i felt , no jane to comfort me and say that i had not been so very weak and vain and nonsensical as i knew i had !
" indeed , jane , you ought to believe me . - no one who has ever seen you together , can doubt his affection .
" i am perfectly convinced by it that mr darcy has no defect .
now was the moment for her resolution to be executed , and , whieher courage was high , she immediately said , " mr darcy , i am a very selfish creature ; and , for the sake of giving relief to my own feelings , care not how much i may be wounding your ' s .
who would have thought she could be so thin and small ! "
breakfast was scarcely over when a servant from netherfield brought the following note for elizabeth : " my dearest lizzy , " i find myself very unwell this morning , which , i suppose , is to be imputed to my getting wet through yesterday .
" let me be rightly understood .
with a renewal of tenderness , however , they repaie to her room on leaving the dining parlour , and sat with her till summoned to coffee .
they could not be untouched by his polieess , and had they drawn his character from their own feelings , and his servant ' s report , without any reference to any other account , the circle in hertfordshieto which he was known , would not have recognie it for mr darcy .
but jane knows , as well as i do , what wickham really is .
lydia came to us ; and wickham had constant admission to the house .
" their conduct has been such , " replied elizabeth , " as neither you , nor i , nor any body , can ever forget .
i am most seriously displeased . "
she examie into their employments , looked at their work , and advie them to do it differently ; found fault with the arrangement of the furniture , or detected the housemaid in negliece ; and if she accepted any refreshment , seemed to do it only for the sake of finding out that mr collins ' s joints of meat were too large for her family .
if it was not for the entail i should not mind it . "
" he is indeed - but consieing the inducement , my dear miss eliza , we cannot wonder at his complaisance ; for who would object to such a partner ? "
at such a distance as _that_ , you know , things are strangely misrepresented . "
it was not to be supposed that tiewould gielydia that embarrassment , from which she had been so wholly free at first .
it was the second week in may , in which the three young ladies set out together from gracechurch street , for the town of - in hertfordshie and , as they drew near the appointed inn where mr bennet ' s carriage was to meet them , they quickly perceie , in token of the coachman ' s punctuality , both kitty and lydia looking out of a dining room up stairs .
i was afraid they might not ; and we overtook william goulding in his curricle , so i was determie he should know it , and so i let down the sieglass next to him , and took off my glove , and let my hand just rest upon the window frame , so that he might see the ring , and then i bowed and smie like any thing . "
elizabeth felt jane ' s pleasure .
at his own ball he offended two or three young ladies , by not asking them to dance , and i spoke to him twiemyself , without receiving an answer .
she was gone dietly .
he had rather hoped that all his wies views on the stranger would be disappointed ; but he soon found that he had a very different story to hear .
it was not till the afternoon , when he joie them at tea , that elizabeth ventured to introduce the subject ; and then , on her briefly expressing her sorrow for what he must have endured , he replied , " say nothing of that .
her ease and good spirits increased .
my father bears it better .
he had done all this for a girl whom he could neither regard nor esteem .
their lodgings were not long a secret , and at length they began to know the offies themselves .
can it be really so !
miss bingley i am sure cannot .
but if you will listen to his letter , you may perhaps be a little softened by his manner of expressing himself . "
" and you saw him frequently ? "
did you see it ? "
oh , brother , how kind you are !
my feelings in every respect forbid it .
as a brother , a landlord , a master , she consieed how many people ' s happies were in his guardianship ! - how much of pleasure or pain it was in his power to bestow ! - how much of good or evil must be done by him !
his affection for her soon sunk into indifference ; her ' s lasted a little longer ; and in spieof her youth and her manners , she retaie all the claims to reputation which her marriage had gie her .
at length , however , his civility was so far awakened as to enquieof elizabeth after the health of her family .
his sister was less delicate , and dieted her eye towards mr darcy with a very expressiesmie
to kitty , however , it does not seem so wholly unexpected .
i cannot understand it .
but the spiritless condition which this event threw her into , was shortly relieved , and her mind opened again to the agitation of hope , by an article of news , which then began to be in circulation .
i will put on my things in a moment .
chapter xv
oh !
her character will be fie , and she will , at sixteen , be the most determie flirt that ever made herself and her family ridiculous .
they had now entered a beautiful walk by the sieof the water , and every step was bringing forward a nobler fall of ground , or a fie reach of the woods to which they were approaching ; but it was some time before elizabeth was sensible of any of it ; and , though she answered mechanically to the repeated appeals of her uncle and aunt , and seemed to diet her eyes to such objects as they pointed out , she distinguished no part of the scene .
whiethe contents of the first letter remaie on her mind , she was all surprie all astonishment that wickham should marry a girl , whom it was impossible he could marry for money ; and how lydia could ever have attached him , had appeared incomprehensible .
i know it all ; that the young man ' s marrying her , was a patched up busies , at the expence of your father and uncles .
" mr bingley does not know mr wickham himself ? "
however little mr darcy might have lie such an address , he contented himself with coolly replying , that he perceie no other alteration than her being rather tanned , - no miraculous consequence of travelling in the summer .
" this young gentleman is blessed in a peculiar way , with every thing the heart of mortal can most desie - splendid property , noble kindred , and extensive patronage .
thoughtless , thoughtless lydia ! "
dear , dear lizzy .
" and of this place , " thought she , " i might have been mistress !
ten thousand a year !
let _our_ first effusions be less insupportable than those of the generality of travellers . "
" yes - if darcy does not put it off again .
this cannot be ! - engaged to mr darcy !
" and have you heard from him often ? "
there was no arguing upon such a project .
pray make my excuses to pratt , for not keeping my engagement , and dancing with him to night .
" no governess !
the gardies staid only one night at longbourn , and set off the next morning with elizabeth in pursuit of novelty and amusement .
" perhaps it would have been better ; " replied her sister .
what a contrast between him and his friend !
after a short pause , her companion added , " you are too generous to trifle with me .
darcy . - _i_ talked about the dance , and _you_ ought to make some kind of remark on the sieof the room , or the number of couples . "
bingley had never met with pleasanter people or prettier girls in his lie every body had been most kind and attentieto him , there had been no formality , no stiffness , he had soon felt acquainted with all the room ; and as to miss bennet , he could not conceiean angel more beautiful .
two days after mr bennet ' s return , as jane and elizabeth were walking together in the shrubbery behind the house , they saw the housekeeper coming towards them , and , concluding that she came to call them to their mother , went forward to meet her ; but , instead of the expected summons , when they approached her , she said to miss bennet , " i beg your pardon , madam , for interrupting you , but i was in hopes you might have got some good news from town , so i took the liety of coming to ask . "
but she would not allow herself to stay with her sister , or say half that remaie to be said , for the present .
" i believe , ma ' am , i may safely promieyou _never_ to dance with him . "
elizabeth at first had rather wondered that charlotte should not prefer the dining parlour for common use ; it was a better sie room , and had a pleasanter aspect ; but she soon saw that her friend had an excellent reason for what she did , for mr collins would undoubtedly have been much less in his own apartment , had they sat in one equally liey ; and she gave charlotte credit for the arrangement .
when dinner was over , she returned dietly to jane , and miss bingley began abusing her as soon as she was out of the room .
she was busily searching through the neighbourhood for a proper situation for her daughter , and , without knowing or consieing what their income might be , rejected many as deficient in sieand importance .
she was going to the butcher ' s , she told me , on purpose to order in some meat on wednesday , and she has got three couple of ducks , just fit to be killed . "
but how little of permanent happies could belong to a couple who were only brought together because their passions were stronger than their virtue , she could easily conjecture .
" well , well , and so mr bingley is coming down , sister , " ( for mr philips first brought her the news . )
this is the estimation in which you hold me !
miss lucas is married and settled .
but mr bennet , who had calculated on her daughters remaining at netherfield till the following tuesday , which would exactly finish jane ' s week , could not bring herself to receive them with pleasure before .
elizabeth , who had a letter to wrie went into the breakfast room for that purpose soon after tea ; for as the others were all going to sit down to cards , she could not be wanted to counteract her mother ' s schemes .
i will go dietly to mr bennet , and we shall very soon settle it with her , i am sure . "
" elizabeth , you are not serious now . "
" my dear brother , " at last i am able to send you some tidings of my niece , and such as , upon the whole , i hope will gieyou satisfaction .
well , now let us be quiecomfortable and snug , and talk and laugh all the way home .
seriously , i would have you be on your guard .
" my dearest sister , now _be_ be serious .
the possibility of meeting mr darcy , whieviewing the place , instantly occurred .
his name had never been voluntarily mentioned before them by her niece ; and the kind of half expectation which mr gardie had formed , of their being followed by a letter from him , had ended in nothing .
but in spieof all this fietalking , my dear lizzy , you may rest perfectly assured , that your uncle would never have yielded , if we had not gie him credit for _another interest_ in the affair .
chapter iv
nor was darcy ' s vindication , though grateful to her feelings , capable of consoling her for such discovery .
all field sports were over .
it has connected him nearer with virtue than any other feeling .
you shewed me how insufficient were all my pretensions to please a woman worthy of being pleased . "
but she is too much lieher brother , - very , very proud . - as a child , she was affectionate and pleasing , and extremely fond of me ; and i have devoted hours and hours to her amusement .
" bingley . "
i have not the smallest hope .
i do think it is the hardest thing in the world , that your estate should be entaie away from your own children ; and i am sure if i had been you , i should have tried long ago to do something or other about it . "
she found it difficult to obtain even a word from her beyond a monosyllable .
her husband allowed her to talk on without interruption , whiethe servants remaie .
your tempers are by no means unlie
no man of common humanity , no man who had any value for his character , could be capable of it .
she then took a large house in edward street , and has since maintaie herself by letting lodgings .
" oh !
but i hope you will not mind it : it is all for jane ' s sake , you know ; and there is no occasion for talking to him , except just now and then .
upon the whole , i am much pleased with him . "
elizabeth did all she could , to shield him from the frequent notieof either , and was ever anxious to keep him to herself , and to those of her family with whom he might converse without mortification ; and though the uncomfortable feelings arising from all this took from the season of courtship much of its pleasure , it added to the hope of the future ; and she looked forward with delight to the tiewhen they should be removed from society so little pleasing to either , to all the comfort and elegance of their family party at pemberley .
" i am certainly the most fortunate creature that ever existed ! "
in this perturbed state of mind , with thoughts that could rest on nothing , she walked on ; but it would not do ; in half a minute the letter was unfolded again , and collecting herself as well as she could , she again began the mortifying perusal of all that related to wickham , and commanded herself so far as to examiethe meaning of every sentence .
" it must be very agreeable to her to be settled within so easy a distance of her own family and friends . "
it was only said , ' lately , george wickham , esq .
kitty and lydia take his defection much more to heart than i do .
you gieme fresh lieand vigour .
but her commendation , though costing her some trouble , could by no means satisfy mr collins , and he was very soon oblie to take her ladyship ' s praieinto his own hands .
they now walked on in siece ; each of them deep in thought .
she assured him that no one intended to play , and the siece of the whole party on the subject , seemed to justify her .
there , shut into her own room , as soon as their visitor left them , she could think without interruption of all that she had heard .
" implacable resentment _is_ a shade in a character .
you must , therefore , pardon the freedom with which i demand your attention ; your feelings , i know , will bestow it unwillingly , but i demand it of your justie
nothing less than the complaisance of a courtier could have borne without anger such treatment ; but sir william ' s good breeding carried him through it all ; and though he begged leave to be positieas to the truth of his information , he listened to all their impertiece with the most forbearing courtesy .
one came from her books , and the other from her toiete .
" i am sure , " said she , " i cried for two days together when colonel millar ' s regiet went away .
" oh !
he now seated himself by her , and talked so agreeably of kent and hertfordshie of travelling and staying at home , of new books and music , that elizabeth had never been half so well entertaie in that room before ; and they conversed with so much spirit and flow , as to draw the attention of lady catherieherself , as well as of mr darcy .
darcy had walked away to another part of the room .
mr gardie then rallied her niece on wickham ' s desertion , and complieted her on bearing it so well .
said he , taking the letter from his pocket ; " but perhaps you would lieto read it . "
" i am sure _i_ know none so handsome ; but in the gallery up stairs you will see a fie , larger picture of him than this .
well , much good may it do them !
she hardly knew how to suppose that she could be an object of admiration to so great a man ; and yet that he should look at her because he dislie her , was still more strange .
he walked away again immediately , and she was left to fret over her own want of presence of mind ; charlotte tried to console her .
the offies will find women better worth their notie
and rising as she thus spoke , she would have quitted the room , had not mr collins thus addressed her , " when i do myself the honour of speaking to you next on this subject i shall hope to receiea more favourable answer than you have now gie me ; though i am far from accusing you of cruelty at present , because i know it to be the established custom of your sex to reject a man on the first application , and perhaps you have even now said as much to encourage my suit as would be consistent with the true delicacy of the female character . "
though i _know_ it must be a scandalous falsehood ; though i would not injure him so much as to suppose the truth of it possible , i instantly resolved on setting off for this place , that i might make my sentiets known to you . "
his most particular friend , you see by jane ' s account , was persuaded of his never intending to marry her .
i might , perhaps , wish to be informed why , with so little _endeavour_ at civility , i am thus rejected .
the next variation which their visit afforded was produced by the entrance of servants with cold meat , cake , and a variety of all the fiet fruits in season ; but this did not take place till after many a significant look and smiefrom mr annesley to miss darcy had been gie , to remind her of her post .
" i hope , my dear , " said mr bennet to his wie as they were at breakfast the next morning , " that you have ordered a good dinner to day , because i have reason to expect an addition to our family party . "
amazed at the alteration in his manner since they last parted , every sentence that he uttered was increasing her embarrassment ; and every ie of the impropriety of her being found there , recurring to her mind , the few minutes in which they continued together , were some of the most uncomfortable of her lie
" his prie " said miss lucas , " does not offend _me_ so much as pride often does , because there is an excuse for it .
lizzy , my dear , run down to your father , and ask him how much he will gieher .
" sure he will not leave london before he has found them .
" he only told me , what i have now told you . "
why must their marriage be private ?
lizzy is not a bit better than the others ; and i am sure she is not half so handsome as jane , nor half so good humoured as lydia .
yet he is _such_ a man ! "
and as i come back , i can call on lady lucas and mr long .
and you are never to stir out of doors , till you can prove , that you have spent ten minutes of every day in a rational manner . "
" i did not think caroliein spirits , " were her words , " but she was very glad to see me , and reproached me for giving her no notieof my coming to london .
we all love to instruct , though we can teach only what is not worth knowing .
on saturday he came again .
long before it had taken place , my opinion of you was decie .
elizabeth was excessiey disappointed ; she had set her heart on seeing the lakes ; and still thought there might have been tieenough .
this will never do . "
elizabeth shook her head over this letter .
" there were some very strong objections against the lady , " were colonel fitzwilliam ' s words , and these strong objections probably were , her having one uncle who was a country attorney , and another who was in busies in london .
a scheme of which every part promie delight , can never be successful ; and general disappointment is only warded off by the defence of some little peculiar vexation . "
" oh ! - you mean jane , i suppose - because he danced with her twie
oh !
lakes , mountains , and ries , shall not be jumbled together in our imaginations ; nor , when we attempt to descrieany particular scene , will we begin quarrelling about its relatiesituation .
the rest of his letter is only about his dear charlotte ' s situation , and his expectation of a young oliebranch .
she had also asked him twieto dieat rosings , and had sent for him only the saturday before , to make up her pool of quadrille in the evening .
had his own happies , however , been the only sacrifie he might have been allowed to sport with it in what ever manner he thought best ; but her sister ' s was involved in it , as she thought he must be sensible himself .
" it is unlucky , " said she , after a short pause , " that you should not be able to see your friends before they leave the country .
elizabeth excused herself as well as she could ; said that she had lie him better when they met in kent than before , and that she had never seen him so pleasant as this morning .
elizabeth , having rather expected to affront him , was amazed at his gallantry ; but there was a mixture of sweetness and archness in her manner which made it difficult for her to affront anybody ; and darcy had never been so bewitched by any woman as he was by her .
" i am glad i bought my bonnet , if it is only for the fun of having another bandbox !
i never heard you speak ill of a human being in my lie "
mr hurst and mr bingley were at piquet , and mr hurst was observing their game .
he confessed himself oblie to leave the regiet , on account of some debts of honour , which were very pressing ; and scrupled not to lay all the ill consequences of lydia ' s flight , on her own folly alone .
i understand that mr collins has made you an offer of marriage .
" your great men often are ; and therefore i shall not take him at his word about fishing , as he might change his mind another day , and warn me off his grounds . "
bingley will not be detaie in london by them . "
elizabeth could not refuse , though she foresaw little pleasure in the visit .
" is miss darcy much grown since the spring ? "
but on the third morning after his arrival in hertfordshie she saw him from her dressing room window , enter the paddock , and rietowards the house .
nor was it under many , many minutes , that she could comprehend what she heard ; though not in general backward to credit what was for the advantage of her family , or that came in the shape of a lover to any of them .
cried he .
it was necessary to make this circumstance a matter of pleasure , because on such occasions it is the etiquette ; but no one was less liey than mr bennet to find comfort in staying at home at any period of her lie
mr robinson ' s asking him how he lie our meryton assemblies , and whether he did not think there were a great many pretty women in the room , and _which_ he thought the prettiest ?
when this was done , she had a less actiepart to play .
mr bennet raie his eyes from his book as she entered , and fie them on her face with a calm unconcern which was not in the least altered by her communication .
you tear them to pieces . "
elizabeth did not know what to make of it .
with these rooms i might now have been familiarly acquainted !
conjectures as to the meaning of it , rapid and wild , hurried into her brain ; but she was satisfied with none .
