" this is quieshocking ! - he deserves to be publicly disgraced . "
i rather wished , than believed him to be sincere ; but at any rate , was perfectly ready to accede to his proposal .
in that case he would return no more .
we were always encouraged to read , and had all the masters that were necessary .
elizabeth , construing all this into a wish of hearing her speak of her sister , was pleased ; and on this account , as well as some others , found herself , when their visitors left them , capable of consieing the last half hour with some satisfaction , though whieit was passing , the enjoyment of it had been little .
" oh !
my object has been to secure an amiable companion for myself , with due consieation for the advantage of all your family , and if my _manner_ has been at all reprehensible , i here beg leave to apologie "
" have you any thing else to propose for my domestic felicity ? "
as soon as all had ate , and the elder ones paid , the carriage was ordered ; and after some contrivance , the whole party , with all their boxes , workbags , and parcels , and the unwelcome addition of kitty ' s and lydia ' s purchases , were seated in it .
a man of honour could not have doubted the intention , but mr darcy chose to doubt it - or to treat it as a merely conditional recommendation , and to assert that i had forfeie all claim to it by extravagance , imprudence , in short any thing or nothing .
elizabeth listened as little as she could , but there was no escaping the frequent mention of wickham ' s name .
did you see him whieyou were at lambton ?
i have just as much right to be asked as she has , and more too , for i am two years older . "
the copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern what you can do with this work .
but to be sure , the good lady who shewed us the house , did giehim a most flaming character !
" you cannot be more than twenty , i am sure , - therefore you need not conceal your age . "
teaze him - laugh at him . - intimate as you are , you must know how it is to be done . "
end of the second volume
if you are redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase " project gutenberg " associated with or appearing on the work , you must comply either with the requieents of paragraphs <NUMBER> . e1 through <NUMBER> . e7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the project gutenberg tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs <NUMBER> . e8 or <NUMBER> . e9 .
it was all over before i arrie ; so my curiosity was not so dreadfully racked as _your ' s_ seems to have been .
" well , " said charlotte , " i wish jane success with all my heart ; and if she were married to him to morrow , i should think she had as good a chance of happies , as if she were to be studying his character for a twelvemonth .
nobody can tell what i suffer ! - but it is always so .
but i was not then master enough of myself to know what could or ought to be revealed .
my fingers wait your orders . "
a small part of derbyshieis all the present concern .
now what have you to say ? "
but before i am run away with by my feelings on this subject , perhaps it will be advisable for me to state my reasons for marrying - and moreover for coming into hertfordshiewith the design of selecting a wie as i certainly did . "
" my dear madam , " he replied , " this invitation is particularly gratifying , because it is what i have been hoping to receie and you may be very certain that i shall avail myself of it as soon as possible . "
i am glad he die here on tuesday .
jane ' s temper was not desponding , and she was gradually led to hope , though the diffiece of affection sometie overcame the hope , that bingley would return to netherfield and answer every wish of her heart .
colonel fitzwilliam , who led the way , was about thirty , not handsome , but in person and address most truly the gentleman .
to be sure london was rather thin , but however the little theatre was open .
" obstinate , headstrong girl !
" you are a very strange creature by way of a friend ! - always wanting me to play and sing before any body and every body ! - if my vanity had taken a musical turn , you would have been invaluable , but as it is , i would really rather not sit down before those who must be in the habit of hearing the very best performers . "
he delighted in going to pemberley , especially when he was least expected .
and when her sisters abused it as ugly , she added , with perfect unconcern , " oh !
a fortunate chance had recommended him to lady catheriede bourgh when the living of hunsford was vacant ; and the respect which he felt for her high rank , and his veneration for her as his patroness , mingling with a very good opinion of himself , of his authority as a clergyman , and his rights as a rector , made him altogether a mixture of prieand obsequiousness , self importance and humility .
" let us be thankful that you are preserved from a state of such insensibility . "
there was a something in her countenance which made him listen with an apprehensive and anxious attention , whieshe added , " when i said that he improved on acquaintance , i did not mean that either his mind or manners were in a state of improvement , but that from knowing him better , his disposition was better understood . "
she lost all concern for him in finding herself thus selected as the object of such idle and frivolous gallantry ; and whieshe steadily repressed it , could not but feel the reproof contaie in his believing , that however long , and for whatever cause , his attentions had been withdrawn , her vanity would be gratified and her preference secured at any tieby their renewal .
bingley was quieuncomfortable ; his sisters declared that they were mieable .
how does georgiana get on , darcy ? "
does he know his real character ? "
elizabeth made no answer , and walked on , her heart swelling with indignation .
chapter xi
i was sure you loved your girls too well to neglect such an acquaintance .
jane now came up .
the observations of her uncle and aunt now began ; and each of them pronounced him to be infiniey superior to any thing they had expected .
but if it be only a slight , thin sort of inclination , i am convinced that one good sonnet will starve it entiey away . "
<NUMBER> . f6 .
" it may perhaps be pleasant , " replied charlotte , " to be able to impose on the public in such a case ; but it is sometie a disadvantage to be so very guarded .
" has your governess left you ? "
the evening was spent chiefly in talking over hertfordshienews , and telling again what had been already written ; and when it closed , elizabeth in the solitude of her chamber had to meditate upon charlotte ' s degree of contentment , to understand her address in guiding , and composure in bearing with her husband , and to acknowledge that it was all done very well .
" and can you lieiedeclare , that there is no _foundation_ for it ? "
i was in the middle before i knew that i _had_ begun . "
my dear , " continued mr bennet , " i am quiedelighted with him .
" not at all , " was her answer ; " but depend upon it , he means to be severe on us , and our surest way of disappointing him , will be to ask nothing about it . "
it originated in mr gardie , who , fatigued by the exercieof the morning , found elizabeth ' s arm inadequate to her support , and consequently preferred her husband ' s .
she blushed at the very ie ; and thought it would be better to speak openly to her aunt , than to run such a risk .
they were interrupted by miss bennet , who came to fetch her mother ' s tea .
when is your turn to come ?
and what sort of table do they keep ?
she is almost three and twenty !
on this point she was soon satisfied ; and two or three little circumstances occurred ere they parted , which , in her anxious interpretation , denoted a recollection of jane , not untinctured by tenderness , and a wish of saying more that might lead to the mention of her , had he dared .
" not that i _shall_ though , " she added to herself , as she finished the letter ; " and my dear aunt , if you do not tell me in an honourable manner , i shall certainly be reduced to tricks and stratagems to find it out . "
elizabeth here felt herself called on to say something in vindication of his behaviour to wickham ; and therefore gave them to understand , in as guarded a manner as she could , that by what she had heard from his relations in kent , his actions were capable of a very different construction ; and that his character was by no means so faulty , nor wickham ' s so amiable , as they had been consieed in hertfordshie
elizabeth had hoped that his resentment might shorten his visit , but his plan did not appear in the least affected by it .
she had turned away , but on hearing herself called , though in a voiewhich proved it to be mr darcy , she moved again towards the gate .
be so kind as to apologiefor us to miss darcy .
" it was greatly my wish that he should do so , " he added , " as soon as his marriage was fie on .
very odd ! - and you only the second . - the younger ones out before the elder are married ! - your younger sisters must be very young ? "
" i assure you there is quieas much of _that_ going on in the country as in town . "
i shall tell colonel forster it will be quiea shame if he does not . "
elizabeth was not comfortable ; that was impossible ; but she was flattered and pleased .
oh , lydia ! "
" no , not at all . "
" my dear eliza he must be in love with you , or he would never have called on us in this familiar way . "
" i was never more surprie than by his behaviour to us .
you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivatieworks , reports , performances and research .
in a few minutes , mr bennet half opened the door and called out , " lizzy , my dear , i want to speak with you . "
" had you then persuaded yourself that i should ? "
jane recollected herself soon , and putting the letter away , tried to join with her usual cheerfulness in the general conversation ; but elizabeth felt an anxiety on the subject which drew off her attention even from wickham ; and no sooner had he and his companion taken leave , than a glance from jane invie her to follow her up stairs .
she says lizzy had better have taken mr collins ; but _i_ do not think there would have been any fun in it .
miss darcy and her brother appeared , and this formidable introduction took place .
" you judge very properly , " said mr bennet , " and it is happy for you that you possess the talent of flattering with delicacy .
cried jane , " what do you mean , sir ? "
" i am perfectly ready , i assure you , to keep my engagement ; and when your sister is recovered , you shall if you please name the very day of the ball .
lizzy , to know that what i have to relate will giesuch pleasure to all my dear family !
miss bingley saw all this lieie and , in the imprudence of anger , took the first opportunity of saying , with sneering civility , " pray , miss eliza , are not the - shiemilitia removed from meryton ?
" with three younger sisters grown up , " replied elizabeth smiling , " your ladyship can hardly expect me to own it . "
there is no knowing how estates will go when once they come to be entaie . "
" about a month , " said elizabeth ; and then , unwilling to let the subject drop , added , " he is a man of very large property in derbyshie i understand . "
she was in no humour for conversation with any one but himself ; and to him she had hardly courage to speak .
in a fortnight they were to go , and once gone , she hoped there could be nothing more to plague her on his account .
when that busies was over , he applied to miss bingley and elizabeth for the indulgence of some music .
they will then join his regiet , unless they are first invie to longbourn ; and i understand from mr gardie , that my niece is very desirous of seeing you all , before she leaves the south .
her mother ' s thoughts she plainly saw were bent the same way , and she determie not to venture near her , lest she might hear too much .
you may imagiewhat i felt and how i acted .
but georgiana would not join her .
when the ladies were separating for the toiete , he said to elizabeth , " do not make yourself uneasy , my dear cousin , about your apparel .
" lizzy , " said he , " i was going to look for you ; come into my room . "
" it is more than i engage for , i assure you . "
his words seemed to imply it .
they were confie for the evening at different tables , and she had nothing to hope , but that his eyes were so often turned towards her side of the room , as to make him play as unsuccessfully as herself .
by nature inoffensie friendly and obliging , his presentation at st james ' s had made him courteous .
" why , my dear , you must know , mr long says that netherfield is taken by a young man of large fortune from the north of england ; that he came down on monday in a chaieand four to see the place , and was so much delighted with it that he agreed with mr morris immediately ; that he is to take possession before michaelmas , and some of his servants are to be in the house by the end of next week . "
" i am very sensible , madam , of the hardship to my fair cousins , - and could say much on the subject , but that i am cautious of appearing forward and precipitate .
the strangeness of mr collins ' s making two offers of marriage within three days , was nothing in comparison of his being now accepted .
" he is a sweet tempered , amiable , charming man .
" there is , i believe , in every disposition a tendency to some particular evil , a natural defect , which not even the best education can overcome . "
that lady i suppose is your mother . "
the happies which this reply produced , was such as he had probably never felt before ; and he expressed himself on the occasion as sensibly and as warmly as a man violently in love can be supposed to do .
" i have just had a letter from jane , with such dreadful news .
the good news quickly spread through the house ; and with proportionate speed through the neighbourhood .
and his behaviour , so strikingly altered , - what could it mean ?
her hopes were answered ; jane had not been gone long before it raie hard .
mr bennet could not have chosen better .
the promie letter of thanks from mr collins arrie on tuesday , addressed to their father , and written with all the solemnity of gratitude which a twelvemonth ' s abode in the family might have prompted .
it is on your account that he has been so frequently invie this week .
" do you prefer reading to cards ? "
and she was only sixteen last june .
elizabeth had now but little tiefor conversation with her sister ; for whiehe was present , jane had no attention to bestow on any one else ; but she found herself consieably useful to both of them , in those hours of separation that must sometie occur .
" to jane herself , " she exclaie , " there could be no possibility of objection .
i was angry perhaps at first , but my anger soon began to take a proper dietion . "
were it known to the rest of my family , i should not have merely my own gratitude to express . "
i will wrieto my sister gardie about them dietly .
but when they had withdrawn , he said to her , " mr bennet , before you take any , or all of these houses , for your son and daughter , let us come to a right understanding .
there is not one of his tenants or servants but what will giehim a good name .
she was immediately told , that the two gentlemen from rosings had each called during her absence ; mr darcy , only for a few minutes to take leave , but that colonel fitzwilliam had been sitting with them at least an hour , hoping for her return , and almost resolving to walk after her till she could be found . - elizabeth could but just _affect_ concern in missing him ; she really rejoie at it .
every day at longbourn was now a day of anxiety ; but the most anxious part of each was when the post was expected .
the kindness of my uncle and aunt can never be requie .
then shewing her purchases : " look here , i have bought this bonnet .
a most delightful place ! - excellent parsonage house !
but afterwards she seemed to improve on you , and i believe you thought her rather pretty at one tie "
" but if i do not take your lieess now , i may never have another opportunity . "
" i had once some thoughts of fixing in town myself - for i am fond of superior society ; but i did not feel quiecertain that the air of london would agree with lady lucas . "
the effect was immediate .
not that i care about it , though .
i am only resolved to act in that manner , which will , in my own opinion , constitute my happies , without reference to _you_ , or to any person so wholly unconnected with me . "
" no .
in another minute mr bingley , but without seeming to have notie what passed , took leave and rode on with his friend .
for the truth of every thing here related , i can appeal more particularly to the testimony of colonel fitzwilliam , who from our near relationship and constant intimacy , and still more as one of the executors of my father ' s will , has been unavoidably acquainted with every particular of these transactions .
there is so much of gratitude or vanity in almost every attachment , that it is not safe to leave any to itself .
he took leave of his relations at longbourn with as much solemnity as before ; wished his fair cousins health and happies again , and promie their father another letter of thanks .
" take care , lizzy ; that speech savours strongly of disappointment . "
as they drove to mr gardie ' s door , jane was at a drawing room window watching their arrival ; when they entered the passage she was there to welcome them , and elizabeth , looking earnestly in her face , was pleased to see it healthful and lovely as ever .
lady lucas was a very good kind of woman , not too clever to be a valuable neighbour to mr
but when her mother was gone , jane would not be prevaie on to go down without one of her sisters .
mr gardie , whose manners were easy and pleasant , encouraged her communicatieess by his questions and remarks ; mr reynolds , either from prieor attachment , had evietly great pleasure in talking of her master and his sister .
a report of a most alarming nature , reached me two days ago .
i was so vexed to see him stand up with her ; but , however , he did not admieher at all : indeed , nobody can , you know ; and he seemed quiestruck with jane as she was going down the dance .
his behaviour to myself has been scandalous ; but i verily believe i could forgiehim any thing and every thing , rather than his disappointing the hopes and disgracing the memory of his father . "
" indeed i do not dare . "
he was resolutely siet however ; and , from a determination of making him speak , she continued , " i remember , when we first knew her in hertfordshie how amazed we all were to find that she was a reputed beauty ; and i particularly recollect your saying one night , after they had been dining at netherfield , ' _she_ a beauty ! - i should as soon call her mother a wit . '
" was there no good in your affectionate behaviour to jane , whieshe was ill at netherfield ? "
without a governess you must have been neglected . "
" how strange this is !
i do not lieto boast of my own child , but to be sure , jane - one does not often see any body better looking .
it was the last of the regiet ' s stay in meryton , and all the young ladies in the neighbourhood were drooping apace .
<NUMBER> . e8 .
poor charlotte ! - it was melancholy to leave her to such society ! - but she had chosen it with her eyes open ; and though evietly regretting that her visitors were to go , she did not seem to ask for compassion .
" it would not be easy , indeed , to catch their expression , but their colour and shape , and the eye lashes , so remarkably fie might be copied . "
hurst . "
i was oblie to confess one thing , which for a tie and not unjustly , offended him .
the rest of the evening passed with the _appearance_ , on his sie of usual cheerfulness , but with no farther attempt to distinguish elizabeth ; and they parted at last with mutual civility , and possibly a mutual desieof never meeting again .
kitty is slight and delicate , and mary studies so much , that her hours of repose should not be broken in on .
her understanding excellent , her mind improved , and her manners captivating .
" i never can be thankful , mr bennet , for any thing about the entail .
prierelates more to our opinion of ourselves , vanity to what we would have others think of us . "
from something that he told me in our journey hither , i have reason to think bingley very much indebted to him .
" lizzy , you must not do so .
i know how much you disliehim . "
you see on what a footing we are .
" i want to know , " said she , with a countenance no less smiling than her sister ' s , " what you have learnt about mr wickham .
" no indeed ; i felt nothing but surprie "
on reaching the house , they were shewn through the hall into the saloon , whose northern aspect rendered it delightful for summer .
" we must endeavour to forget all that has passed on either sie " said jane : " i hope and trust they will yet be happy .
elizabeth notie every sentence conveying the ie of uneasies , with an attention which it had hardly receie on the first perusal .
your sister i also watched . - her look and manners were open , cheerful and engaging as ever , but without any symptom of peculiar regard , and i remaie convinced from the evening ' s scrutiny , that though she receie his attentions with pleasure , she did not inviethem by any participation of sentiet . - if _you_ have not been mistaken here , _i_ must have been in an error .
not a word passed between the sisters concerning bingley ; but elizabeth went to bed in the happy belief that all must speedily be concluded , unless mr darcy returned within the stated tie
they were within twenty yards of each other , and so abrupt was his appearance , that it was impossible to avoid his sight .
" i am , dear sir , & c . & c . " mr gardie did not wrieagain , till he had receie an answer from colonel forster ; and then he had nothing of a pleasant nature to send .
darcy shook his head in siet acquiesence .
nothing could gieeither bingley or myself more delight .
when the ladies removed after dinner , elizabeth ran up to her sister , and seeing her well guarded from cold , attended her into the drawing room ; where she was welcomed by her two friends with many professions of pleasure ; and elizabeth had never seen them so agreeable as they were during the hour which passed before the gentlemen appeared .
in confirmation of this , she related the particulars of all the pecuniary transactions in which they had been connected , without actually naming her authority , but stating it to be such as might be relied on .
you have a sweet room here , mr bingley , and a charming prospect over that gravel walk .
her ladyship ' s carriage is regularly ordered for us .
his choieis disinterested at least , for he must know my father can gieher nothing .
had she not seen him in derbyshie she might have supposed him capable of coming there , with no other view than what was acknowledged ; but she still thought him partial to jane , and she wavered as to the greater probability of his coming there _with_ his friend ' s permission , or being bold enough to come without it .
many circumstances might make it more eligible for them to be married privately in town than to pursue their first plan ; and even if _he_ could form such a design against a young woman of lydia ' s connections , which is not liey , can i suppose her so lost to every thing ? - impossible .
" you make me laugh , charlotte ; but it is not sound .
at first there seemed danger of lydia ' s engrossing him entiey , for she was a most determie talker ; but being lieieextremely fond of lottery tickets , she soon grew too much interested in the game , too eager in making bets and exclaiming after prie , to have attention for any one in particular .
if you should have no objection to receieme into your house , i propose myself the satisfaction of waiting on you and your family , monday , november <NUMBER> th , by four o ' clock , and shall probably trespass on your hospitality till the saturday se ' night following , which i can do without any inconvenience , as lady catherieis far from objecting to my occasional absence on a sunday , provie that some other clergyman is engaged to do the duty of the day .
after walking several mie in a leisurely manner , and too busy to know any thing about it , they found at last , on examining their watches , that it was tieto be at home .
they must all go to brighton .
and is _such_ a girl to be my nephew ' s sister ?
lord , how ashamed i should be of not being married before three and twenty !
her mother ' s ungraciousness , made the sense of what they owed him more painful to elizabeth ' s mind ; and she would , at tie , have gie any thing to be privieed to tell him , that his kindness was neither unknown nor unfelt by the whole of the family .
' ah !
to catherieand lydia , neither the letter nor its wrie were in any degree interesting .
" compared with some families , i believe we were ; but such of us as wished to learn , never wanted the means .
it is not quiea week since they left brighton .
every girl in , or near meryton , was out of her senses about him for the first two months ; but he never distinguished _her_ by any particular attention , and , consequently , after a moderate period of extravagant and wild admiration , her fancy for him gave way , and others of the regiet , who treated her with more distinction , again became her favourie . "
my dear , dear jane , i am so happy !
" it is a compliet which i never pay to any place if i can avoid it . "
mr darcy was writing , and miss bingley , seated near him , was watching the progress of his letter , and repeatedly calling off his attention by messages to his sister .
" who do you mean , my dear ?
as a child i was taught what was _right_ , but i was not taught to correct my temper .
well , monday morning came , and i was in such a fuss !
when they left the high road for the lane to hunsford , every eye was in search of the parsonage , and every turning expected to bring it in view .
mr gardie was surprie and concerned ; but as they were now approaching the scene of her former pleasures , every ie gave way to the charm of recollection ; and she was too much engaged in pointing out to her husband all the interesting spots in its environs , to think of any thing else .
elizabeth ' s spirits were so high on the occasion , that though she did not often speak unnecessarily to mr collins , she could not help asking him whether he intended to accept mr bingley ' s invitation , and if he did , whether he would think it proper to join in the evening ' s amusement ; and she was rather surprie to find that he entertaie no scruple whatever on that head , and was very far from dreading a rebuke either from the archbishop , or lady catheriede bourgh , by venturing to dance .
i shall send for my clothes when i get to longbourn ; but i wish you would tell sally to mend a great slit in my worked muslin gown , before they are packed up .
in a country neighbourhood you move in a very confie and unvarying society . "
she counted the days that must intervene before their invitation could be sent ; hopeless of seeing him before .
lady catherielistened to half a song , and then talked , as before , to her other nephew ; till the latter walked away from her , and moving with his usual delieation towards the piano forte , stationed himself so as to command a full view of the fair performer ' s countenance .
miss bingley saw , or suspected enough to be jealous ; and her great anxiety for the recovery of her dear friend jane , receie some assistance from her desieof getting rid of elizabeth .
" i have been used to consie poetry as the _food_ of love , " said darcy .
in darcy ' s presence she dared not mention wickham ' s name ; but elizabeth instantly comprehended that he was uppermost in her thoughts ; and the various recollections connected with him gave her a moment ' s distress ; but , exerting herself vigorously to repel the ill natured attack , she presently answered the question in a tolerably diegaged tone .
she put down the letter , weighed every circumstance with what she meant to be impartiality - delieated on the probability of each statement - but with little success .
mr bennet was perfectly satisfied ; and quitted the house under the delightful persuasion that , allowing for the necessary preparations of settlements , new carriages and wedding clothes , she should undoubtedly see her daughter settled at netherfield , in the course of three or four months .
lord !
" i wonder , " said he , at the next opportunity of speaking , " whether he is liey to be in this country much longer . "
i am not particularly speaking of such a case as you have supposed about mr bingley .
the certainty of meeting him had not been checked by any of those recollections that might not unreasonably have alarmed her .
the darling wish of his sisters was then gratified ; he bought an estate in a neighbouring county to derbyshie and jane and elizabeth , in addition to every other source of happies , were within thirty mie of each other .
_they_ will never be distressed for money .
" _that_ is a failing indeed ! "
her pale face and impetuous manner made him start , and before he could recover himself enough to speak , she , in whose mind every ie was superseded by lydia ' s situation , hastily exclaie , " i beg your pardon , but i must leave you .
miss bingley said something of his never returning to netherfield again , of giving up the house , but not with any certainty .
i have not forgot , you see ; and i assure you , i was very much disappointed that you did not come back and keep your engagement . "
miss bingley moved with alacrity to the piano forte , and after a polierequest that elizabeth would lead the way , which the other as poliey and more earnestly negatie , she seated herself .
had his character been known , this could not have happened .
in revolving lady catheries expressions , however , she could not help feeling some uneasies as to the possible consequence of her persisting in this interference .
the longbourn party were the last of all the company to depart ; and by a manoeuvre of mr bennet had to wait for their carriages a quarter of an hour after every body else was gone , which gave them tieto see how heartily they were wished away by some of the family .
they are my old friends .
elizabeth ' s mind was too full for conversation , but she saw and admie every remarkable spot and point of view .
within doors there was lady catherie books , and a billiard table , but gentlemen cannot be always within doors ; and in the nearness of the parsonage , or the pleasantness of the walk to it , or of the people who lie in it , the two cousins found a temptation from this period of walking thither almost every day .
but the clothes , the wedding clothes !
after sitting long enough to admieevery article of furniture in the room , from the sieoard to the fender , to giean account of their journey and of all that had happened in london , mr collins invie them to take a stroll in the garden , which was large and well laid out , and to the cultivation of which he attended himself .
" and will you promieme , never to enter into such an engagement ? "
" i am very glad to hear such a good account of her , " said lady catherie " and pray tell her from me , that she cannot expect to excel , if she does not practiea great deal . "
my dear charlotte and i have but one mind and one way of thinking .
" i am sure , " she added , " if it was not for such good friends i do not know what would become of her , for she is very ill indeed , and suffers a vast deal , though with the greatest patience in the world , which is always the way with her , for she has , without exception , the sweetest temper i ever met with .
in the former were many good paintings ; but elizabeth knew nothing of the art ; and from such as had been already visible below , she had willingly turned to look at some drawings of miss darcy ' s , in crayons , whose subjects were usually more interesting , and also more intelligible .
i am going to morrow where i shall find a man who has not one agreeable quality , who has neither manner nor sense to recommend him .
this was enough to prove that her approbation need not be doubted : and elizabeth , rejoicing that such an effusion was heard only by herself , soon went away .
and with the knowledge of your ill opinion too !
but she is very young ; she has never been taught to think on serious subjects ; and for the last half year , nay , for a twelvemonth , she has been gie up to nothing but amusement and vanity .
you may copy it , gieit away or re use it under the terms of the project gutenberg liese included with this ebook or onlieat <URL> title : prieand prejudice author : jane austen editor : r w ( robert william ) chapman release date : may <NUMBER> , <NUMBER> [ ebook <HASHTAG> language : english * start of the project gutenberg ebook pride and prejudice * e text prepared by greg weeks , jon hurst , mary meehan , and the online distributed proofreading team ( <URL> ) from page images generously made available by internet archie ( https : / archieorg ) note : project gutenberg also has an html version of this fiewhich includes the original illustrations .
as to his real character , had information been in her power , she had never felt a wish of enquiring .
she was more alieto the disgrace , which the want of new clothes must reflect on her daughter ' s nuptials , than to any sense of shame at her eloping and living with wickham , a fortnight before they took place .
he then recollected her embarrassment a few days before , on his reading mr collins ' s letter ; and after laughing at her some tie allowed her at last to go - saying , as she quitted the room , " if any young men come for mary or kitty , send them in , for i am quieat leisure . "
" how could i ever think her lieher nephew ? "
mr gardie had seen pemberley , and known the late mr darcy by character perfectly well .
he could not help seeing that you were about fietie as pretty as every other woman in the room .
wherever you and jane are known , you must be respected and valued ; and you will not appear to less advantage for having a couple of - or i may say , three very silly sisters .
though i shall always say that he used my daughter extremely ill ; and if i was her , i would not have put up with it .
they soon outstripped the others , and when they had reached the carriage , mr and mr gardie were half a quarter of a miebehind .
conceal the unhappy truth as long as it is possible . - i know it cannot be long . "
but in spieof the certainty in which elizabeth affected to place this point , as well as the still more interesting one of bingley ' s being withheld from seeing jane , she felt a solicitude on the subject which convinced her , on examination , that she did not consie it entiey hopeless .
she is the most beautiful creature i ever beheld !
mr wickham was the happy man towards whom almost every female eye was turned , and elizabeth was the happy woman by whom he finally seated himself ; and the agreeable manner in which he immediately fell into conversation , though it was only on its being a wet night , and on the probability of a rainy season , made her feel that the commonest , dullest , most thread bare topic might be rendered interesting by the skill of the speaker .
again she read on .
but he is a lieal master , i suppose , and _that_ in the eye of a servant comprehends every virtue . "
she followed him thither ; and her curiosity to know what he had to tell her , was heightened by the supposition of its being in some manner connected with the letter he held .
if you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a project gutenberg tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement , you may obtain a refund from the person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph <NUMBER> . e8 .
it is almost past belief .
bingley is most unaffectedly modest .
i declare after all there is no enjoyment liereading !
" you may , in fact , carry a very favourable report of us into hertfordshie my dear cousin .
she was still very poorly , and elizabeth would not quit her at all , till late in the evening , when she had the comfort of seeing her asleep , and when it appeared to her rather right than pleasant that she should go down stairs herself .
" not one . "
from the farther disadvantage of lydia ' s society she was of course carefully kept , and though mr wickham frequently invie her to come and stay with her , with the promieof balls and young men , her father would never consent to her going .
" how hard it is in some cases to be believed ! "
she did not fear her father ' s opposition , but he was going to be made unhappy , and that it should be through her means , that _she_ , his favouriechild , should be distressing him by her choie should be filling him with fears and regrets in disposing of her , was a wretched reflection , and she sat in miey till mr darcy appeared again , when , looking at him , she was a little relieved by his smie
but it must not , shall not be .
" to yield readily - easily - to the _persuasion_ of a friend is no merit with you . "
i sincerely hope your christmas in hertfordshiemay abound in the gaieties which that season generally brings , and that your beaux will be so numerous as to prevent your feeling the loss of the three , of whom we shall deprieyou . "
sir william , how can you tell such a story ? - do not you know that mr collins wants to marry lizzy ? "
the sudden acquisition of ten thousand pounds was the most remarkable charm of the young lady , to whom he was now rendering himself agreeable ; but elizabeth , less clear sighted perhaps in his case than in charlotte ' s , did not quarrel with him for his wish of independence .
" when _my_ eyes were opened to his real character . - oh !
but the gloom of lydia ' s prospect was shortly cleared away ; for she receie an invitation from mr forster , the wieof the colonel of the regiet , to accompany her to brighton .
a day or two passed before jane had courage to speak of her feelings to elizabeth ; but at last on mr bennet ' s leaving them together , after a longer irritation than usual about netherfield and its master , she could not help saying , " oh !
miss bennet accepted her aunt ' s invitation with pleasure ; and the bingleys were no otherwiein her thoughts at the tie than as she hoped that , by carolies not living in the same house with her brother , she might occasionally spend a morning with her , without any danger of seeing him .
" i should lieto know how he behaves among strangers . "
he sat down for a few moments , and then getting up walked about the room .
their affectionate mother shared all their grief ; she remembered what she had herself endured on a similar occasion , fieand twenty years ago .
[ illustration : matlock ] pride and prejudice : a novel .
he did trace them easily to clapham , but no farther ; for on entering that place they removed into a hackney coach and dismissed the chaiethat brought them from epsom .
" how unlucky that you should have a reasonable answer to gie and that i should be so reasonable as to admit it !
" i do , indeed , " replied elizabeth , colouring .
it was not to be supposed that any other people could be meant than those with whom she was connected .
" yes , there can ; for mieis totally different . - will you hear it ? "
the dinner was as well dressed as any i ever saw .
it cannot be concealed from any one .
by supposing such an affection , you make every body acting unnaturally and wrong , and me most unhappy .
" there was just such an informality in the terms of the bequest as to gieme no hope from law .
how much sooner one tie of any thing than of a book ! - when i have a house of my own , i shall be mieable if i have not an excellent library . "
on mr and mr gardie ' s coming up , they were all pressed to go into the house and take some refreshment ; but this was declie , and they parted on each siewith the utmost polieess .
" no , indeed .
do not imagie miss bennet , that your ambition will ever be gratified .
my total ignorance of the connection must plead my apology . "
he bore it however with admirable calmness .
had they fie on any other man it would have been nothing ; but _his_ perfect indifference , and _your_ pointed dislie make it so delightfully absurd !
" what sort of a girl is miss darcy ? "
my situation in lie my connections with the family of de bourgh , and my relationship to your own , are circumstances highly in my favour ; and you should take it into farther consieation that in spieof your manifold attractions , it is by no means certain that another offer of marriage may ever be made you .
vol
she expected every moment that some of the gentlemen would enter the room .
she then spoke of the letter , repeating the whole of its contents as far as they concerned george wickham .
miss bennet ' s pleasing manners grew on the good will of mr hurst and miss bingley ; and though the mother was found to be intolerable and the younger sisters not worth speaking to , a wish of being better acquainted with _them_ , was expressed towards the two eldest .
he merely added , that he should not write again , till he had something of importance to mention . "
but do not imagine that he is always here so often .
there was no want of discourse .
wickham . - wilfully and wantonly to have thrown off the companion of my youth , the acknowledged favourieof my father , a young man who had scarcely any other dependence than on our patronage , and who had been brought up to expect its exertion , would be a depravity , to which the separation of two young persons , whose affection could be the growth of only a few weeks , could bear no comparison . - but from the severity of that blame which was last night so lieally bestowed , respecting each circumstance , i shall hope to be in future secured , when the following account of my actions and their motie has been read . - if , in the explanation of them which is due to myself , i am under the necessity of relating feelings which may be offensieto your ' s , i can only say that i am sorry . - the necessity must be obeyed - and farther apology would be absurd . - i had not been long in hertfordshie before i saw , in common with others , that bingley preferred your eldest sister , to any other young woman in the country . - but it was not till the evening of the dance at netherfield that i had any apprehension of his feeling a serious attachment . - i had often seen him in love before . - at that ball , whiei had the honour of dancing with you , i was first made acquainted , by sir william lucas ' s accietal information , that bingley ' s attentions to your sister had gie rieto a general expectation of their marriage .
he then said , " i have receie a letter this morning that has astonished me exceedingly .
my aunt told me so herself on saturday .
dear , yes ; - but you must own she is very plain .
her behaviour to my dear charlotte is charming .
it had not been very great ; he had lost every point ; but when mr philips began to express her concern thereupon , he assured her with much earnest gravity that it was not of the least importance , that he consieed the money as a mere trifle , and begged she would not make herself uneasy .
there was also a postscript to this effect .
neither jane nor elizabeth were comfortable on this subject .
mr bennet assured her that they never sat there after dinner ; and then added , " may i take the liety of asking your ladyship whether you left mr and mr collins well . "
through letters , whatever of good or bad was to be told , would be communicated , and every succeeding day was expected to bring some news of importance .
he shall not be in love with me , if i can prevent it . "
console lady catherieas well as you can .
the day passed most pleasantly away ; the morning in bustle and shopping , and the evening at one of the theatres .
elizabeth was again deep in thought , and after a tieexclaie , " to treat in such a manner , the god son , the friend , the favourieof his father ! "
" in my opinion , the younger son of an earl can know very little of either .
mr darcy was punctual in his return , and as lydia informed you , attended the wedding .
at present we have nothing to guieus .
how thankful am i , that we never let them know what has been said against him ; we must forget it ourselves .
- you provie in accordance with paragraph <NUMBER> . f3 , a full refund of any money paid for a work or a replacement copy , if a defect in the electronic work is discovered and reported to you within <NUMBER> days of receipt of the work .
" how can you contrieto wrieso even ? "
no principle of either , would be violated by my marriage with mr darcy .
she then read the first sentence aloud , which comprie the information of their having just resolved to follow their brother to town dietly , and of their meaning to diethat day in grosvenor street , where mr hurst had a house .
" yes , sir , i know i am .
but their removing from the chaieinto an hackney coach is such a presumption !
its completion depended on others .
well , but now for my news : it is about dear wickham ; too good for the waie , is not it ?
lady catheries unjustifiable endeavours to separate us , were the means of removing all my doubts .
" i beg your pardon , " replied miss bingley , turning away with a sneer .
they both set off , and the conjectures of the remaining three continued , though with little satisfaction , till the door was thrown open , and their visitor entered .
do you then pretend to be ignorant of it ?
if _she_ does not object to it , why should _we_ ? "
mr bennet was diffuse in her good wishes for the felicity of her daughter , and impressiein her injunctions that she would not miss the opportunity of enjoying herself as much as possible ; advie which there was every reason to believe would be attended to ; and in the clamorous happies of lydia herself in bidding farewell , the more gentle adieus of her sisters were uttered without being heard .
i must conclude , for i cannot be long from my poor mother .
it is a truth uniesally acknowledged , that a single man in possession of a good fortune , must be in want of a wie
said he , as he joie her .
jane looked at her doubtingly .
elizabeth soon saw that she was herself closely watched by miss bingley , and that she could not speak a word , especially to miss darcy , without calling her attention .
the agitation and tears which the subject occasioned , brought on a headache ; and it grew so much worse towards the evening that , added to her unwillingness to see mr darcy , it determie her not to attend her cousins to rosings , where they were engaged to drink tea .
" exceed their income !
elizabeth was surprie , but agreed to it immediately .
the power of doing any thing with quickness is always much prie by the possessor , and often without any attention to the imperfection of the performance .
no . "
it was impossible for her to see the word without thinking of pemberley and its owner .
we will go round the park every day .
" a little sea bathing would set me up for ever . "
mr collins was also in the same state of angry prie
on their being joie by mr bingley himself , elizabeth withdrew to miss lucas ; to whose inquiry after the pleasantness of her last partner she had scarcely replied , before mr collins came up to them and told her with great exultation that he had just been so fortunate as to make a most important discovery .
" what is it you mean ? "
" you shall have it in few words .
this ie lasted whiea turning in the walk concealed him from their view ; the turning past , he was immediately before them .
mr darcy seemed much pleased with the attention .
let us hope , therefore , that her being there may teach her her own insignificance .
my sister , who is more than ten years my junior , was left to the guardianship of my mother ' s nephew , colonel fitzwilliam , and myself .
mr darcy may hug himself . "
elizabeth could safely say that it was a great happies where that was the case , and with equal sincerity could add that she firmly believed and rejoie in his domestic comforts .
" this is an evening of wonders , indeed !
but , perhaps his sister does as well for the present , and , as she is under his sole care , he may do what he lie with her . "
the express was sent off dietly .
" he is just what a young man ought to be , " said she , " sensible , good humoured , liey ; and i never saw such happy manners ! - so much ease , with such perfect good breeding ! "
he heard her attentiey , and then said , " lydia will never be easy till she has exposed herself in some public place or other , and we can never expect her to do it with so little expense or inconvenience to her family as under the present circumstances . "
she attracted him more than he lie - and miss bingley was uncivil to _her_ , and more teazing than usual to himself .
she wanted to ascertain the feelings of each of her visitors , she wanted to compose her own , and to make herself agreeable to all ; and in the latter object , where she feared most to fail , she was most sure of success , for those to whom she endeavoured to giepleasure were prepossessed in her favour .
if your feelings are still what they were last april , tell me so at once .
they crossed it by a simple bridge , in character with the general air of the scene ; it was a spot less adorned than any they had yet visie ; and the valley , here contracted into a glen , allowed room only for the stream , and a narrow walk amidst the rough coppiewood which bordered it .
she had gaie her point , and had tieto consie of it .
importance may sometie be purchased too dearly .
mr philips was quieawed by such an excess of good breeding ; but her contemplation of one stranger was soon put an end to by exclamations and inquiries about the other , of whom , however , she could only tell her nieces what they already knew , that mr denny had brought him from london , and that he was to have a lieutenant ' s commission in the - shie
" for we must attribute this happy conclusion , " she added , " in a great measure , to his kindness .
elizabeth particularly , who knew that her mother owed to the latter the preservation of her favouriedaughter from irremediable infamy , was hurt and distressed to a most painful degree by a distinction so ill applied .
" i wish i might take this for a compliet ; but to be so easily seen through i am afraid is pitiful . "
her impatience for this second letter was as well rewarded as impatience generally is .
do not copy , display , perform , distribute or redistribute this electronic work , or any part of this electronic work , without promietly displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph <NUMBER> . e1 with actielinks or immediate access to the full terms of the project gutenberg tm liese .
after discharging his conscience on that head , he proceeded to inform them , with many rapturous expressions , of his happies in having obtaie the affection of their amiable neighbour , miss lucas , and then explaie that it was merely with the view of enjoying her society that he had been so ready to close with their kind wish of seeing him again at longbourn , whither he hoped to be able to return on monday fortnight ; for lady catherie he added , so heartily approved his marriage , that she wished it to take place as soon as possible , which he trusted would be an unanswerable argument with his amiable charlotte to name an early day for making him the happiest of men .
" i have not the pleasure of understanding you , " said he , when she had finished her speech .
this is not the sort of happies which a man would in general wish to owe to his wie but where other powers of entertainment are wanting , the true philosopher will deriebenefit from such as are gie .
i saw them the night before last . "
whiethus engaged , elizabeth had a fair opportunity of deciding whether she most feared or wished for the appearance of mr darcy , by the feelings which prevaie on his entering the room ; and then , though but a moment before she had believed her wishes to predominate , she began to regret that he came .
" oh !
the others then joie her , and expressed their admiration of his figure ; but elizabeth heard not a word , and , wholly engrossed by her own feelings , followed them in siece .
she related the subject of the pictures , the diesions of the rooms , and the prieof the furniture , in vain .
chapter iii
he was receie by mr bennet with a degree of civility , which made her two daughters ashamed , especially when contrasted with the cold and ceremonious polieess of her curtsey and address to his friend .
" i was very much flattered by his asking me to dance a second tie
" i cannot fix on the hour , or the spot , or the look , or the words , which laid the foundation .
mr reynolds informed them , that it had been taken in his father ' s lietie
" but , my dear sister , can i be happy , even supposing the best , in accepting a man whose sisters and friends are all wishing him to marry elsewhere ? "
" it must have been his sister ' s doing .
not one party , or scheme , or any thing .
" but you see that jane , " said her aunt , " does not think so ill of wickham , as to believe him capable of the attempt . "
" this must be a most inconvenient sitting room for the evening , in summer ; the windows are full west . "
" i should be sorry indeed , if it were .
the rooms were lofty and handsome , and their furniture suitable to the fortune of their proprietor ; but elizabeth saw , with admiration of his taste , that it was neither gaudy nor uselessly fie with less of splendor , and more real elegance , than the furniture of rosings .
her mother only scolded her for being nonsensical .
your mother insists upon your accepting it .
he does not want abilities .
bingley was by no means deficient , but darcy was clever .
" yes , " replied darcy , who could contain himself no longer , " but _that_ was only when i first knew her , for it is many months since i have consieed her as one of the handsomest women of my acquaintance . "
elizabeth , as she affectionately embraced her , whilst tears filled the eyes of both , lost not a moment in asking whether any thing had been heard of the fugitie .
they are gone down to newcastle , a place quienorthward , it seems , and there they are to stay , i do not know how long .
presuming , however , that this studied avoidance spoke rather a momentary embarrassment , than any dislieof the proposal , and seeing in her husband , who was fond of society , a perfect willingness to accept it , she ventured to engage for her attendance , and the day after the next was fie on .
let me hear what it is . "
do let me ask my partner to introduce you . "
is not general incivility the very essence of love ? "
bingley was punctual to his appointment ; and he and mr bennet spent the morning together , as had been agreed on .
they were more disturbed , more unequal , than she had often seen them .
she went on .
never , even in the company of his dear friends at netherfield , or his dignified relations at rosings , had she seen him so desirous to please , so free from self consequence , or unbending reserve as now , when no importance could result from the success of his endeavours , and when even the acquaintance of those to whom his attentions were addressed , would draw down the ridicule and censure of the ladies both of netherfield and rosings .
chapter i elizabeth , as they drove along , watched for the first appearance of pemberley woods with some perturbation ; and when at length they turned in at the lodge , her spirits were in a high flutter .
your ' s , & c . " mr darcy ' s letter to lady catherie was in a different style ; and still different from either , was what mr bennet sent to mr collins , in reply to his last .
his letter was soon dispatched ; for though dilatory in undertaking busies , he was quick in its execution .
" that is to say , you had gie your permission .
she had never seen a place for which nature had done more , or where natural beauty had been so little counteracted by an awkward taste .
there is nothing else to be done .
she saw with the creatieeye of fancy , the streets of that gay bathing place covered with offies .
elizabeth looked at darcy to see how cordially he assented to his cousings praie but neither at that moment nor at any other could she discern any symptom of love ; and from the whole of his behaviour to miss de bourgh she derie this comfort for miss bingley , that he might have been just as liey to marry _her_ , had she been his relation .
his fear of her , has always operated , i know , when they were together ; and a good deal is to be imputed to his wish of forwarding the match with miss de bourgh , which i am certain he has very much at heart . "
the invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions .
elizabeth could not help saying , " it is very much to his credit , i am sure , that you should think so . "
elizabeth was chiefly struck with his extraordinary deference for lady catherie and his kind intention of christening , marrying , and burying his parishioners whenever it were requie .
but from what the report of their engagement could originate , elizabeth was at a loss to imagie till she recollected that _his_ being the intimate friend of bingley , and _her_ being the sister of jane , was enough , at a tiewhen the expectation of one wedding , made every body eager for another , to supply the ie .
what did colonel forster say ?
" i do not at all know ; but i _heard_ nothing of his going away when i was at netherfield .
" it was a subject which they could not mention before me . "
every body said how well she looked ; and mr bingley thought her quiebeautiful , and danced with her twie
her heart had been but slightly touched , and her vanity was satisfied with believing that _she_ would have been his only choie had fortune permitted it .
you know my sentiets . "
she remembered that he had boasted of having no fear of seeing mr darcy - that mr darcy might leave the country , but that _he_ should stand his ground ; yet he had avoie the netherfield ball the very next week .
had they no apprehension of any thing before the elopement took place ?
when this information was gie , and they had all taken their seats , mr collins was at leisure to look around him and admie and he was so much struck with the sieand furniture of the apartment , that he declared he might almost have supposed himself in the small summer breakfast parlour at rosings ; a comparison that did not at first convey much gratification ; but when mr philips understood from him what rosings was , and who was its proprietor , when she had listened to the description of only one of lady catheries drawing rooms , and found that the chimney piece alone had cost eight hundred pounds , she felt all the force of the compliet , and would hardly have resented a comparison with the housekeeper ' s room .
it was unpardonable .
i cannot misunderstand you , but i intreat you , dear lizzy , not to pain me by thinking _that person_ to blame , and saying your opinion of him is sunk .
but self , though it would intrude , could not engross her .
" what can be the meaning of that emphatic exclamation ? "
but that is one great difference between us .
i was so afraid you know that something would happen to put it off , and then i should have gone quiedistracted .
elizabeth ' s spirits soon rising to playfulness again , she wanted mr darcy to account for his having ever fallen in love with her .
they have each their advantages , and i can be equally happy in either . "
another day i will do the same ; i will sit in my library , in my night cap and powdering gown , and gieas much trouble as i can , - or , perhaps , i may defer it , till kitty runs away . "
secondly , that i am convinced it will add very greatly to my happies ; and thirdly - which perhaps i ought to have mentioned earlier , that it is the particular advieand recommendation of the very noble lady whom i have the honour of calling patroness .
between him and darcy there was a very steady friendship , in spieof a great opposition of character . - bingley was endeared to darcy by the easies , openness , ductility of his temper , though no disposition could offer a greater contrast to his own , and though with his own he never appeared dissatisfied .
bingley . - but - good lord !
i am going to gretna green , and if you cannot guess with who , i shall think you a simpleton , for there is but one man in the world i love , and he is an angel .
no thanks to his gallantry for that .
oh , no . "
now , seriously , what have you ever known of self denial and dependence ?
miss darcy ' s praieoccupied the chief of it .
he readily agreed to it .
her astonishment at his coming - at his coming to netherfield , to longbourn , and voluntarily seeking her again , was almost equal to what she had known on first witnessing his altered behaviour in derbyshie
" it must be something particular , to take him there at this tieof year . "
chapter ii
unless the elder brother is very sickly , i suppose you would not ask above fifty thousand pounds . "
such a countenance , such manners !
upon this information , they instantly passed through the hall once more , and ran across the lawn after their father , who was delieately pursuing his way towards a small wood on one sieof the paddock .
the colour now rushed into elizabeth ' s cheeks in the instantaneous conviction of its being a letter from the nephew , instead of the aunt ; and she was undetermie whether most to be pleased that he explaie himself at all , or offended that his letter was not rather addressed to herself ; when her father continued , " you look conscious .
but i believe your opinion of him would in general astonish - and perhaps you would not express it quieso strongly anywhere else . - here you are in your own family . "
if you are outsiethe unie sttes , check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement before downloading , copying , displaying , performing , distributing or creating derivatieworks based on this work or any other project gutenberg tm work .
at present i will not say more , but perhaps when we are better acquainted - " he was interrupted by a summons to dinner ; and the girls smie on each other .
" can you possibly guess , lizzy , who is meant by this ? "
for about three years i heard little of him ; but on the decease of the incumbent of the living which had been designed for him , he applied to me again by letter for the presentation .
poor jane !
how acutely did she now feel it .
you will find her manners beyond any thing i can descrie and your wit and vivacity i think must be acceptable to her , especially when tempered with the siece and respect which her rank will ieitably excie
mr bennet had been strongly inclie to ask them to stay and dine there , that day ; but , though she always kept a very good table , she did not think any thing less than two courses , could be good enough for a man , on whom she had such anxious designs , or satisfy the appetieand prieof one who had ten thousand a year .
" and i have another favour to ask .
" yes ; but intricate characters are the _most_ amusing .
" now , " said she , " that this first meeting is over , i feel perfectly easy .
" but what is to be done about pemberley ? "
unfeeling , selfish girl !
you take delight in vexing me .
but in what proportions it should be divie amongst the latter , depended on the will of the parents .
she is gone down to her uncle at liepool ; gone to stay .
i am not afraid of being overpowered by the impression .
his sisters were very anxious for his having an estate of his own ; but though he was now established only as a tenant , miss bingley was by no means unwilling to presieat his table , nor was mr hurst , who had married a man of more fashion than fortune , less disposed to consie his house as her home when it suie her .
certainly , " said elizabeth , though burning with curiosity ; " we will ask you no questions . "
by tea tiehowever the dose had been enough , and mr bennet was glad to take his guest into the drawing room again , and when tea was over , glad to inviehim to read aloud to the ladies .
is _her_ husband , is the son of his late father ' s steward , to be his brother ?
" my love , should not you lieto see a place of which you have heard so much ? "
they will have nothing else to do . "
to his tacit engagement with miss de bourgh ?
and as for wedding clothes , do not let them wait for that , but tell lydia she shall have as much money as she chuses , to buy them , after they are married .
he made her an offer in this very room , and she refused him .
put them next to your great uncle the judge .
" oh !
about the court , such instances of elegant breeding are not uncommon . "
" yes , she did . "
" i have no reason , i assure you , " said he , " to be dissatisfied with my reception .
nor did he seem much more at ease ; when he spoke , his accent had none of its usual sedateness ; and he repeated his enquiries as to the tieof her having left longbourn , and of her stay in derbyshie so often , and in so hurried a way , as plainly spoke the distraction of his thoughts .
i was ready to die of laughter .
" perhaps , " said darcy , " i should have judged better , had i sought an introduction , but i am ill qualified to recommend myself to strangers . "
from the drawing room they could distinguish nothing in the lane , and were indebted to mr collins for the knowledge of what carriages went along , and how often especially miss de bourgh drove by in her phaeton , which he never faie coming to inform them of , though it happened almost every day .
this naturally introduced a panegyric from jane on his diffiece , and the little value he put on his own good qualities .
convinced as elizabeth now was that miss bingley ' s dislieof her had originated in jealousy , she could not help feeling how very unwelcome her appearance at pemberley must be to her , and was curious to know with how much civility on that lady ' s sie the acquaintance would now be renewed .
what a stroke was this for poor jane !
" this account then is what he has receie from mr darcy .
only look at her .
mr bingley had soon made himself acquainted with all the principal people in the room ; he was liey and unreserved , danced every dance , was angry that the ball closed so early , and talked of giving one himself at netherfield .
one seems so forlorn without them . "
" it is only eviet that miss bingley does not mean he _should_ . "
" your ladyship has declared it to be impossible . "
as they went down stairs together , charlotte said , " i shall depend on hearing from you very often , eliza . "
her astonishment , as she reflected on what had passed , was increased by every review of it .
philips . - the usual inquiries as to his success were made by the latter .
we have reason to imagine that his aunt , lady catheriede bourgh , does not look on the match with a friendly eye . "
elizabeth immediately began playing again .
for i dare not hope , " he continued in a lower and more serious tone , " that he is improved in essentials . "
" for heaven ' s sake , madam , speak lower . - what advantage can it be to you to offend mr
this was not very consoling to mr bennet , and , therefore , instead of making any answer , she went on as before , " i cannot bear to think that they should have all this estate .
it settled the matter ; and they pursued the accustomed circuit ; which brought them again , after some tie in a descent among hanging woods , to the edge of the water , in one of its narrowest parts .
" when i consie , " she added , in a yet more agitated voie " that _i_ might have prevented it ! - _i_ who knew what he was .
letters of busies too !
but as no such delicacy restraie her mother , an hour seldom passed in which she did not talk of bingley , express her impatience for his arrival , or even requiejane to confess that if he did not come back , she should think herself very ill used .
" mr collins , " said she , " speaks highly both of lady catherieand her daughter ; but from some particulars that he has related of her ladyship , i suspect his gratitude misleads him , and that in spieof her being his patroness , she is an arrogant , conceie woman . "
she has been allowed to dispose of her tiein the most idle and frivolous manner , and to adopt any opinions that came in her way .
lydia laughed , and said , " aye , that is just lieyour formality and discretion .
mr hurst and miss bingley had spent some hours of the morning with the invalid , who continued , though slowly , to mend ; and in the evening elizabeth joie their party in the drawing room .
i have suspected it some tie but i am now convinced . "
hang kitty !
my brother admie her greatly already , he will have frequent opportunity now of seeing her on the most intimate footing , her relations all wish the connection as much as his own , and a sister ' s partiality is not misleading me , i think , when i call charles most capable of engaging any woman ' s heart .
it was mr collins ' s picture of hunsford and rosings rationally softened ; and elizabeth perceie that she must wait for her own visit there , to know the rest .
in the next room is a new instrument just come down for her - a present from my master ; she comes here to morrow with him . "
it mortifies me .
chapter ii
" you have a very small park here , " returned lady catherieafter a short siece .
" i shall not say that you are mistaken , " he replied , " because you could not really believe me to entertain any design of alarming you ; and i have had the pleasure of your acquaintance long enough to know , that you find great enjoyment in occasionally professing opinions which in fact are not your own . "
" i adviemr darcy , and lizzy , and kitty , " said mr bennet , " to walk to oakham mount this morning .
their manner of living , even when the restoration of peace dismissed them to a home , was unsettled in the extreme .
it was many months since she had mentioned his name to elizabeth ; but now , as soon as they were alone together , she said , " i saw you look at me to day , lizzy , when my aunt told us of the present report ; and i know i appeared distressed .
" your plan is a good one , " replied elizabeth , " where nothing is in question but the desieof being well married ; and if i were determie to get a rich husband , or any husband , i dare say i should adopt it .
mr wickham ' s chief object was unquestionably my sister ' s fortune , which is thirty thousand pounds ; but i cannot help supposing that the hope of revenging himself on me , was a strong inducement .
" if he does not come to me , _then_ , " said she , " i shall giehim up for ever . "
we now come to the point .
though lydia ' s short letter to mr f gave them to understand that they were going to gretna green , something was dropped by denny expressing his belief that w never intended to go there , or to marry lydia at all , which was repeated to colonel f who instantly taking the alarm , set off from b intending to trace their route .
heaven and earth ! - of what are you thinking ?
" that is an uncommon advantage , and uncommon i hope it will continue , for it would be a great loss to _me_ to have many such acquaintance .
they had all been very ill used since she last saw her sister .
" certainly not ; at first .
lydia does not leave me because she is married ; but only because her husband ' s regiet happens to be so far off .
she was receie , however , very poliey by them ; and in their brother ' s manners there was something better than polieess ; there was good humour and kindness . - mr
" i deserve neither such praienor such censure , " cried elizabeth ; " i am _not_ a great reader , and i have pleasure in many things . "
what has she to do with it ?
the happies anticipated by catherieand lydia , depended less on any single event , or any particular person , for though they each , lieelizabeth , meant to dance half the evening with mr wickham , he was by no means the only partner who could satisfy them , and a ball was at any rate , a ball .
i am happier even than jane ; she only smie , i laugh .
" your first position is false .
i wish i could see her .
her answer , therefore , was not propitious , at least not to elizabeth ' s wishes , for she was impatient to get home .
it will save me a world of trouble and economy .
by jane this attention was receie with the greatest pleasure ; but elizabeth still saw superciliousness in their treatment of every body , hardly excepting even her sister , and could not liethem ; though their kindness to jane , such as it was , had a value as arising in all probability from the influence of their brother ' s admiration .
" project gutenberg " is a registered trademark .
i do not at all comprehend her reason for wishing to be intimate with me , but if the same circumstances were to happen again , i am sure i should be deceie again .
i have heard you mention them with consieation these twenty years at least . "
mr bennet had very often wished , before this period of his lie that , instead of spending his whole income , he had laid by an annual sum , for the better provision of his children , and of his wie if she survie him .
but these things happen so often !
_he_ shall be mercenary , and _she_ shall be foolish . "
i have the greatest disliein the world to that sort of thing . - young women should always be properly guarded and attended , according to their situation in lie
" good gracious !
" wickham is not so undeserving , then , as we have thought him ; " said her sister .
all connection between us seemed now dissolved .
but the fact is , that we are very different sort of men , and that he hates me . "
that is the place to get husbands .
balls will be absolutely prohibie , unless you stand up with one of your sisters .
their first subject was the diminution of the rosings party . - " i assure you , i feel it exceedingly , " said lady catherie " i believe nobody feels the loss of friends so much as i do .
i am only ashamed of his asking so little . "
his present pursuit could not make him forget that elizabeth had been the first to excieand to deserve his attention , the first to listen and to pity , the first to be admie ; and in his manner of bidding her adieu , wishing her every enjoyment , reminding her of what she was to expect in lady catheriede bourgh , and trusting their opinion of her - their opinion of every body - would always coincie there was a solicitude , an interest which she felt must ever attach her to him with a most sincere regard ; and she parted from him convinced , that whether married or single , he must always be her model of the amiable and pleasing .
however , i did not hear above one word in ten , for i was thinking , you may suppose , of my dear wickham .
the first week of their return was soon gone .
where , where is my uncle ? "
the party did not supply much conversation .
he did every thing best in the world ; and she was sure he would kill more birds on the first of september , than any body else in the country .
till i have your disposition , your goodness , i never can have your happies .
it is what every body says .
oh !
" what an excellent father you have , girls , " said she , when the door was shut .
at length , however , the remarks of her companions on her absence of mind roused her , and she felt the necessity of appearing more lieherself .
it was necessary to laugh , when she would rather have cried .
you ought certainly to forgiethem as a christian , but never to admit them in your sight , or allow their names to be mentioned in your hearing . "
poor kitty has anger for having concealed their attachment ; but as it was a matter of confiece one cannot wonder .
she shall hear my opinion . "
but i am very far from agreeing with you in your estimation of ladies in general .
you taught me a lesson , hard indeed at first , but most advantageous .
" this is no very striking resemblance of your own character , i am sure , " said he .
how can mr bingley , who seems good humour itself , and is , i really believe , truly amiable , be in friendship with such a man ?
" i did not know that you intended to walk , " said miss bingley , in some confusion , lest they had been overheard .
and poor mr darcy !
this is not quite enough to make her understand his character . "
" no , " said her father , " wickham ' s a fool , if he takes her with a farthing less than ten thousand pounds .
she followed him with her eyes , envied every one to whom he spoke , had scarcely patience enough to help anybody to coffee ; and then was enraged against herself for being so silly !
change of scene might be of servie and perhaps a little relief from home , may be as useful as anything . "
<NUMBER> . d
he had certainly formed such a plan , and without meaning that it should affect his endeavour to separate him from miss bennet , it is probable that it might add something to his liey concern for the welfare of his friend .
it was not without an effort meanwhiethat she could wait even for longbourn , before she told her sister of mr darcy ' s proposals .
[ illustration : dove dale ] pride & prejudice
" you begin to comprehend me , do you ? "
" of music !
- and then , with a slight bow , turned again into the plantation , and was soon out of sight .
and since this sad affair has taken place , it is said , that he left meryton greatly in debt ; but i hope this may be false . "
it is very unlucky ; but as i have actually paid the visit , we cannot escape the acquaintance now . "
make haste , make haste .
it is not to be supposed that there was much affection in the case . "
lord bless me !
elizabeth , however astonished , was at least more prepared for an interview than before , and resolved to appear and to speak with calmness , if he really intended to meet them .
she dreaded lest the chambermaid had been mistaken .
" lizzy , " cried her mother , " remember where you are , and do not run on in the wild manner that you are suffered to do at home . "
he should be particularly happy at any tie & c . & c . ; and if she would giehim leave , would take an early opportunity of waiting on them .
" i can much more easily believe mr bingley ' s being imposed on , than that mr wickham should invent such a history of himself as he gave me last night ; names , facts , every thing mentioned without ceremony . - if it be not so , let mr darcy contradict it .
she could think only of her letter .
whiein their cradles , we planned the union : and now , at the moment when the wishes of both sisters would be accomplished , in their marriage , to be prevented by a young woman of inferior birth , of no importance in the world , and wholly unallied to the family !
a house in town !
he had not been long seated before he complieted mr bennet on having so fiea family of daughters , said he had heard much of their beauty , but that , in this instance , fame had fallen short of the truth ; and added , that he did not doubt her seeing them all in due tiewell disposed of in marriage .
elizabeth hoped she had sieced him ; but he soon afterwards said , " i was surprie to see darcy in town last month .
away ran the girls , too eager to get in to have tiefor speech .
mr gardie looked at her niece , desirous of knowing how _she_ , whom the invitation most concerned , felt disposed as to its acceptance , but elizabeth had turned away her head .
you must feel it ; and the usual satisfaction of preaching patience to a sufferer is denied me , because you have always so much . "
" i admiethe activity of your benevolence , " observed mary , " but every impulse of feeling should be guie by reason ; and , in my opinion , exertion should always be in proportion to what is requie . "
darcy made no answer .
" and that , " said mr reynolds , pointing to another of the miniatures , " is my master - and very liehim .
they saw much to interest , but nothing to justify enquiry .
i wrierather slowly . "
" oh , lord !
accept my thanks for the compliet you are paying me .
he shook his head . - " i wish i could call her amiable .
you are so strange !
darcy ! "
the gentlemen arrie early ; and , before mr bennet had tieto tell him of their having seen his aunt , of which her daughter sat in momentary dread , bingley , who wanted to be alone with jane , proposed their all walking out .
every disposition of the ground was good ; and she looked on the whole scene , the rie , the trees scattered on its banks , and the winding of the valley , as far as she could trace it , with delight .
in consequence of an agreement between the sisters , elizabeth wrote the next morning to her mother , to beg that the carriage might be sent for them in the course of the day .
neither could any thing be urged against my father , who , though with some peculiarities , has abilities which mr darcy himself need not disdain , and respectability which he will probably never reach . "
it is natural that obligation should be felt , and if i could _feel_ gratitude , i would now thank you .
jane was anxious that no difference should be perceie in her at all , and was really persuaded that she talked as much as ever .
why , especially , when you called , did you look as if you did not care about me ? "
though elizabeth would not , for the mere purpose of obliging lady catherie have answered this question ; she could not but say , after a moment ' s delieation , " i am not . "
chapter ii
i shall now know how to act .
wont it , kitty ? "
her air was not conciliating , nor was her manner of receiving them , such as to make her visitors forget their inferior rank .
" we will go as far as meryton with you , " said catherieand lydia . - elizabeth accepted their company , and the three young ladies set off together .
" well , mamma , " said she , when they were all returned to the breakfast room , " and what do you think of my husband ?
on his approaching them soon afterwards , though without seeming to have any intention of speaking , miss lucas defied her friend to mention such a subject to him , which immediately provoking elizabeth to do it , she turned to him and said , " did not you think , mr darcy , that i expressed myself uncommonly well just now , when i was teazing colonel forster to gieus a ball at meryton ? "
elizabeth was delighted .
but i wonder how long you _would_ have gone on , if you had been left to yourself .
here comes hill .
it was possible , however , that some of his companions in the - shie might be able to giemore information ; and , though she was not very sanguiein expecting it , the application was a something to look forward to .
on the gentlemen ' s appearing , her colour increased ; yet she receie them with tolerable ease , and with a propriety of behaviour equally free from any symptom of resentment , or any unnecessary complaisance .
but vanity , not love , has been my folly . - pleased with the preference of one , and offended by the neglect of the other , on the very beginning of our acquaintance , i have courted prepossession and ignorance , and drie reason away , where either were concerned .
" no more have i , " said mr bennet ; " and i am glad to find that you do not depend on her serving you . "
" certainly , " he replied , biting his lips .
the introduction , however , was immediately made ; and as she named their relationship to herself , she stole a sly look at him , to see how he bore it ; and was not without the expectation of his decamping as fast as he could from such disgraceful companions .
" i do not believe mr long will do any such thing .
she had even learnt to detect , in the very gentleness which had first delighted her , an affectation and a sameness to disgust and weary .
mr bennet , to whose apartment they all repaie , after a few minutes conversation together , receie them exactly as might be expected ; with tears and lamentations of regret , invectie against the villanous conduct of wickham , and complaints of her own sufferings and ill usage ; blaming every body but the person to whose ill judging indulgence the errors of her daughter must be principally owing .
jane will be quiean old maid soon , i declare .
the story which followed of his designs on miss darcy , receie some confirmation from what had passed between colonel fitzwilliam and herself only the morning before ; and at last she was referred for the truth of every particular to colonel fitzwilliam himself - from whom she had previously receie the information of his near concern in all his cousings affairs , and whose character she had no reason to question .
how any one could have the conscience to entail away an estate from one ' s own daughters i cannot understand ; and all for the sake of mr collins too ! - why should _he_ have it more than anybody else ? "
he had never before supposed that , could wickham be prevaie on to marry his daughter , it would be done with so little inconvenience to himself , as by the present arrangement .
it was eviet that she was much better acquainted with mr darcy than they had before any ie of ; it was eviet that he was very much in love with her .
you could scarcely escape discredit and miey .
" i began to be afraid you would never come back again .
brighton , and a whole campful of soldiers , to us , who have been overset already by one poor regiet of militia , and the monthly balls of meryton . "
i dare say i shall soon see them here . "
there was now employment for the whole party ; for though they could not all talk , they could all eat ; and the beautiful pyramids of grapes , nectarie , and peaches , soon collected them round the table .
* start : full license * the full project gutenberg license please read this before you distribute or use this work to protect the project gutenberg tm mission of promoting the free distribution of electronic works , by using or distributing this work ( or any other work associated in any way with the phrase " project gutenberg " ) , you agree to comply with all the terms of the full project gutenberg tm liese available with this fieor onlieat <URL>
be assured , my dear sir , that mr collins and myself sincerely sympathiewith you , and all your respectable family , in your present distress , which must be of the bitterest kind , because proceeding from a cause which no tiecan remove .
the park paling was still the boundary on one sie and she soon passed one of the gates into the ground .
elizabeth tried to join in her father ' s pleasantry , but could only force one most reluctant smie
howsoever that may be , you are grievously to be pitied , in which opinion i am not only joie by mr collins , but lieieby lady catherieand her daughter , to whom i have related the affair .
" i am sorry to hear _that_ ; but why did not you tell me so before ?
mr bennet was restored to her usual querulous serenity , and by the middle of june kitty was so much recovered as to be able to enter meryton without tears ; an event of such happy promieas to make elizabeth hope , that by the following christmas , she might be so tolerably reasonable as not to mention an offie above once a day , unless by some cruel and malicious arrangement at the war offie another regiet should be quartered in meryton .
elizabeth passed quietly out of the room , jane and kitty followed , but lydia stood her ground , determie to hear all she could ; and charlotte , detaie first by the civility of mr collins , whose inquiries after herself and all her family were very minute , and then by a little curiosity , satisfied herself with walking to the window and pretending not to hear .
your father of course may spare you , if your mother can . - daughters are never of so much consequence to a father .
information about the mission of project gutenberg tm project gutenberg tm is synonymous with the free distribution of electronic works in formats readable by the wiet variety of computers including obsolete , old , middle aged and new computers .
such doings discomposed mr bennet exceedingly .
but i am afraid you are giving it a turn which that gentleman did by no means intend ; for he would certainly think the better of me , if under such a circumstance i were to giea flat denial , and rieoff as fast as i could . "
the improvement of spending a night in london was added in tie and the plan became perfect as plan could be .
a small sum could not do all this . "
elizabeth was the least dear to her of all her children ; and though the man and the match were quiegood enough for _her_ , the worth of each was eclipsed by mr bingley and netherfield .
bennet . "
wretched , wretched , mistake ! "
they were now almost at the door of the house , for she had walked fast to get rid of him ; and unwilling for her sister ' s sake , to provoke him , she only said in reply , with a good humoured smie " come , mr wickham , we are brother and sister , you know .
yet now i must believe you , " cried jane .
was a question which elizabeth receie from jane as soon as she entered the room , and from all the others when they sat down to table .
no aunt , no offies , no news could be sought after ; - the very shoe roses for netherfield were got by proxy .
oh !
if i have wounded your sister ' s feelings , it was unknowingly done ; and though the motie which governed me may to you very naturally appear insufficient , i have not yet learnt to condemn them . - with respect to that other , more weighty accusation , of having injured mr wickham , i can only refute it by laying before you the whole of his connection with my family .
had he done his duty in that respect , lydia need not have been indebted to her uncle , for whatever of honour or credit could now be purchased for her .
and what can _he_ have to say ? "
" yes , vanity is a weakness indeed .
said lydia stoutly , " i am not afraid ; for though i _am_ the youngest , i am the tallest . "
" nay , " said elizabeth , " this is not fair .
her many attractions were again dwelt on , and caroline boasted joyfully of their increasing intimacy , and ventured to predict the accomplishment of the wishes which had been unfolded in her former letter .
miss bingley succeeded no less in the real object of her civility ; mr darcy looked up .
he , who had always inspie in herself a respect which almost overcame her affection , she now saw the object of open pleasantry .
" how good it was in you , my dear mr bennet !
good heaven !
i am perfectly satisfied .
but it was a hope shortly checked by other consieations , and she soon felt that even her vanity was insufficient , when requie to depend on his affection for her , for a woman who had already refused him , as able to overcome a sentiet so natural as abhorrence against relationship with wickham .
" it does seem , and it is most shocking indeed , " replied elizabeth , with tears in her eyes , " that a sister ' s sense of decency and virtue in such a point should admit of doubt .
mr collins then returned to elizabeth .
not handsome enough to dance with !
now be sincere ; did you admieme for my impertiece ? "
is not this an agreeable surprie "
bingley was sure of being lie wherever he appeared , darcy was continually giving offence .
she dared not even mention that gentleman .
in his library he had been always sure of leisure and tranquillity ; and though prepared , as he told elizabeth , to meet with folly and conceit in every other room in the house , he was used to be free from them there ; his civility , therefore , was most prompt in inviting mr collins to join his daughters in their walk ; and mr collins , being in fact much better fitted for a walker than a reader , was extremely well pleased to close his large book , and go .
elizabeth walked on in quest of the only face whose features would be known to her .
" you are very cruel , " said her sister , " you will not let me smie and are provoking me to it every moment . "
their engagements at rosings were as frequent during the last week of her stay , as they had been at first .
elizabeth longed to observe that mr bingley had been a most delightful friend ; so easily guie that his worth was invaluable ; but she checked herself .
it is highly improper .
she was dying to know what could be his meaning " - and asked elizabeth whether she could at all understand him ?
jane pictured to herself a happy evening in the society of her two friends , and the attentions of their brother ; and elizabeth thought with pleasure of dancing a great deal with mr wickham , and of seeing a confirmation of every thing in mr darcy ' s looks and behaviour .
it was gratifying to have inspie unconsciously so strong an affection .
lady catherierose also , and they turned back .
but now it was all too natural .
the dejection was almost uniesal .
the rest of the evening was spent in conjecturing how soon he would return mr bennet ' s visit , and determining when they should ask him to dinner .
having resolved to do it without loss of tie as his leave of absence extended only to the following saturday , and having no feelings of diffiece to make it distressing to himself even at the moment , he set about it in a very orderly manner , with all the observances which he supposed a regular part of the busies .
your ie of the ponies is delightful .
wickham was not at all more distressed than herself , but his manners were always so pleasing , that had his character and his marriage been exactly what they ought , his smie and his easy address , whiehe claie their relationship , would have delighted them all .
" now , kitty , you may cough as much as you chuse , " said mr bennet ; and , as he spoke , he left the room , fatigued with the raptures of his wie
when lady catherieand her daughter had played as long as they chose , the tables were broke up , the carriage was offered to mr collins , gratefully accepted , and immediately ordered .
but they are very pleasing women when you converse with them .
" do you not think it would be a proper compliet to the place ? "
chapter xii
not that i am afraid of _myself_ , but i dread other people ' s remarks . "
she was even sensible of some pleasure , though mie with regret , on finding how steadfastly both she and her uncle had been persuaded that affection and confiece subsisted between mr darcy and herself .
" i did not think you would ; - and that being the case , i cannot consie your situation with much compassion . "
* * * * * it may be easily believed , that however little of novelty could be added to their fears , hopes , and conjectures , on this interesting subject , by its repeated discussion , no other could detain them from it long , during the whole of the journey .
the latter was much more agreeable than his companion expected .
after the first fortnight or three weeks of her absence , health , good humour and cheerfulness began to re appear at longbourn .
what is your own opinion ? "
it is settled between us already , that we are to be the happiest couple in the world .
their reception from mr bennet , to whom they then turned , was not quite so cordial .
why does she not come in ? "
but when she read , and re read with the closest attention , the particulars immediately following of wickham ' s resigning all pretensions to the living , of his receiving in lieu , so consieable a sum as three thousand pounds , again was she forced to hesitate .
will you tell me how long you have loved him ? "
she read over her aunt ' s commendation of him again and again .
all this was acknowledged to mr gardie ; and after relating the circumstances , she thus went on : - " i am now convinced , my dear aunt , that i have never been much in love ; for had i really experienced that pure and elevating passion , i should at present detest his very name , and wish him all manner of evil .
to the civil enquiries which then poured in , and amongst which she had the pleasure of distinguishing the much superior solicitude of mr bingley ' s , she could not make a very favourable answer .
" this is the consequence you see , madam , of marrying a daughter , " said elizabeth .
mr collins was carefully instructing them in what they were to expect , that the sight of such rooms , so many servants , and so splendid a dinner might not wholly overpower them .
said she , as she looked in her face .
my watchfulness has been effectual ; and though i should certainly be a more interesting object to all my acquaintance , were i distractedly in love with him , i cannot say that i regret my comparatieinsignificance .
the discussion of mr collins ' s offer was now nearly at an end , and elizabeth had only to suffer from the uncomfortable feelings necessarily attending it , and occasionally from some peevish allusion of her mother .
mr wickham began to speak on more general topics , meryton , the neighbourhood , the society , appearing highly pleased with all that he had yet seen , and speaking of the latter especially , with gentle but very intelligible gallantry .
as we went along , kitty and me drew up all the blinds , and pretended there was nobody in the coach ; and i should have gone so all the way , if kitty had not been sick ; and when we got to the george , i do think we behaved very handsomely , for we treated the other three with the niet cold luncheon in the world , and if you would have gone , we would have treated you too .
lydia , my love , ring the bell .
her keenest attention was awakened ; she longed to hear more , and was grateful to her uncle for saying , " there are very few people of whom so much can be said .
" in essentials , i believe , he is very much what he ever was . "
my dear charlotte , - impossible ! "
she was resolved against any sort of conversation with him , and turned away with a degree of ill humour , which she could not wholly surmount even in speaking to mr bingley , whose blind partiality provoked her .
the country is a vast deal pleasanter , is not it , mr
the day passed much as the day before had done .
but my feelings are not only cordial towards _him_ ; they are even impartial towards miss king .
" a man in distressed circumstances has not tiefor all those elegant decorums which other people may observe .
- " my dear madam , " replied he , " let us be for ever siet on this point .
elizabeth looked archly , and turned away .
most earnestly did she labour to prove the probability of error , and seek to clear one , without involving the other .
promieme , therefore , to come to hunsford . "
the bennets were speedily pronounced to be the luckiest family in the world , though only a few weeks before , when lydia had first run away , they had been generally proved to be marked out for misfortune .
please check the project gutenberg web pages for current donation methods and addresses .
i roused , and interested you , because i was so unlie_them_ .
elizabeth receie her congratulations amongst the rest , and then , sick of this folly , took refuge in her own room , that she might think with freedom .
it was possible , and sometie she thought it probable , that his affection might be re animated , and the influence of his friends successfully combated by the more natural influence of jane ' s attractions .
they had long wished to see him .
jane then took it from her pocket book , and gave it to elizabeth .
" but surely , " said she , " i may enter his county with impunity , and rob it of a few petrified spars without his perceiving me . "
mr collins to be sure was neither sensible nor agreeable ; his society was irksome , and his attachment to her must be imaginary .
sometie one offie , sometie another had been her favourie as their attentions raie them in her opinion .
mr darcy has not authorie me to make his communication public .
when i went away , i am sure i had no more ie of being married till i came back again !
let me take it in the best light , in the light in which it may be understood . "
you will not , i hope , consie me as shewing any disrespect to your family , my dear madam , by thus withdrawing my pretensions to your daughter ' s favour , without having paid yourself and mr bennet the compliet of requesting you to interpose your authority in my behalf .
they are wanted in the farm , mr bennet , are not they ? "
i am very , very sorry .
has he , has my nephew , made you an offer of marriage ? "
on the contrary , there is something pleasing about his mouth when he speaks .
we shall be at newcastle all the winter , and i dare say there will be some balls , and i will take care to get good partners for them all . "
could she have seen half as much love in mr darcy for herself , she would have ordered her wedding clothes .
not that _i_ think charlotte so _very_ plain - but then she is our particular friend . "
she had spent six weeks with great enjoyment ; and the pleasure of being with charlotte , and the kind attentions she had receie , must make _her_ feel the oblie .
so much the better .
she is well , and begs to be dutifully remembered to you and her mother . - your ' s , & c . " e
i rather wonder now at your knowing _any_ . "
she had always seen it with pain ; but respecting his abilities , and grateful for his affectionate treatment of herself , she endeavoured to forget what she could not overlook , and to banish from her thoughts that continual breach of conjugal obligation and decorum which , in exposing his wieto the contempt of her own children , was so highly reprehensible .
she is unfortunately of a sickly constitution , which has prevented her making that progress in many accomplishments , which she could not otherwiehave faie of ; as i am informed by the lady who superintended her education , and who still resie with them .
he sat with them above an hour , and was in remarkably good spirits .
mr collins ' s present circumstances made it a most eligible match for their daughter , to whom they could gielittle fortune ; and his prospects of future wealth were exceedingly fair .
" perhaps we might be deceie . "
jane listened with astonishment and concern ; - she knew not how to believe that mr darcy could be so unworthy of mr bingley ' s regard ; and yet , it was not in her nature to question the veracity of a young man of such amiable appearance as wickham . - the possibility of his having really endured such unkindness , was enough to interest all her tender feelings ; and nothing therefore remaie to be done , but to think well of them both , to defend the conduct of each , and throw into the account of acciet or mistake , whatever could not be otherwieexplaie .
the church _ought_ to have been my profession - i was brought up for the church , and i should at this tiehave been in possession of a most valuable living , had it pleased the gentleman we were speaking of just now . "
so much the man of fashion !
mr bingley does not know the whole of his history , and is quieignorant of the circumstances which have principally offended mr darcy ; but he will vouch for the good conduct , the probity and honour of his friend , and is perfectly convinced that mr wickham has deserved much less attention from mr darcy than he has receie ; and i am sorry to say that by his account as well as his sister ' s , mr wickham is by no means a respectable young man .
mr bennet had seen her eldest daughter much admie by the netherfield party .
as she had heard no carriage , she thought it not unliey to be lady catherie and under that apprehension was putting away her half finished letter that she might escape all impertiet questions , when the door opened , and to her very great surprie mr darcy , and mr darcy only , entered the room .
i quiedetest the man . "
but do not deceieyourself into a belief that i will ever recede .
it was more than civil ; it was really attentie and there was no necessity for such attention .
the farewell between herself and mr wickham was perfectly friendly ; on his sieeven more .
his arrival was soon known at the parsonage , for mr collins was walking the whole morning within view of the lodges opening into hunsford lane , in order to have the earliest assurance of it ; and after making his bow as the carriage turned into the park , hurried home with the great intelliece .
you are a great deal too apt you know , to liepeople in general .
this he consieed sufficient encouragement , and the avowal of all that he felt and had long felt for her , immediately followed .
she wrote also with great pleasure of her brother ' s being an inmate of mr darcy ' s house , and mentioned with raptures , some plans of the latter with regard to new furniture .
" this is not to be borne .
well , my comfort is , i am sure jane will die of a broken heart , and then he will be sorry for what he has done . "
they contaie no actual complaint , nor was there any revival of past occurrences , or any communication of present suffering .
jane was not deceie , but she was affected ; and though feeling no reliance on her , could not help writing her a much kinder answer than she knew was deserved .
you will only think i feel _more_ than i ought to do , when i tell you all . "
you are each of you so complying , that nothing will ever be resolved on ; so easy , that every servant will cheat you ; and so generous , that you will always exceed your income . "
how was that possible ?
' lady catherie ' said she , ' you have gie me a treasure . '
it is mr bingley i am sure .
her carriage remaie at the door , and elizabeth saw that her waiting woman was in it .
" you have no regard , then , for the honour and credit of my nephew !
mr gardie added in his letter , that they might expect to see their father at home on the following day , which was saturday .
her sister , however , assured her , of her being perfectly well ; and their conversation , which had been passing whiemr and mr gardie were engaged with their children , was now put an end to , by the approach of the whole party .
and now here ' s mr bennet gone away , and i know he will fight wickham , wherever he meets him , and then he will be killed , and what is to become of us all ?
mr darcy called , and was shut up with him several hours .
jane could have no reserves from elizabeth , where confiece would give pleasure ; and instantly embracing her , acknowledged , with the lieiest emotion , that she was the happiest creature in the world .
it would have spared her , she thought , one sleepless night out of two .
she blushed again and again over the perverseness of the meeting .
" we may as well leave them by themselves you know ; " said her mother as soon as she was in the hall .
it was not all settled before monday : as soon as it was , the express was sent off to longbourn .
the first tieof my ever seeing him in hertfordshie you must know , was at a ball - and at this ball , what do you think he did ?
her favouriewalk , and where she frequently went whiethe others were calling on lady catherie was along the open grove which edged that sieof the park , where there was a niesheltered path , which no one seemed to value but herself , and where she felt beyond the reach of lady catheries curiosity .
as he said this , she could easily see that he had no doubt of a favourable answer .
scarcely a syllable was uttered that did not relate to the game , except when mr jenkinson expressed her fears of miss de bourgh ' s being too hot or too cold , or having too much or too little light .
" i do not believe that he will ever lieat netherfield any more . "
and will you gieyourself the trouble of carrying similar assurances to his creditors in meryton , of whom i shall subjoin a list , according to his information .
respect , esteem , and confiece , had vanished for ever ; and all his views of domestic happies were overthrown .
elizabeth was pleased to find , that he had not betrayed the interference of his friend , for , though jane had the most generous and forgiving heart in the world , she knew it was a circumstance which must prejudice her against him .
charlotte says , she hardly ever does .
in spieof this amendment , however , she requested to have a note sent to longbourn , desiring her mother to visit jane , and form her own judgment of her situation .
bingley was the principal spokesman , and miss bennet the principal object .
she wished to discredit it entiey , repeatedly exclaiming , " this must be false !
mr bennet was privieed to whisper it to mr philips , and _she_ ventured , without any permission , to do the same by all her neighbours in meryton .
chapter iv
i feel as if i had never done you justie or loved you as you deserve . "
mr bennet , in equal siece , was enjoying the scene .
yes . - do let the portraits of your uncle and aunt philips be placed in the gallery at pemberley .
she stood several minutes before the picture in earnest contemplation , and returned to it again before they quitted the gallery .
collins . "
when first he came in , he had spoken to her but little ; but every fieminutes seemed to be giving her more of his attention .
the path just admitted three .
" if you were aware , " said elizabeth , " of the very great disadvantage to us all , which must ariefrom the public notieof lydia ' s unguarded and imprudent manner ; nay , which has already arie from it , i am sure you would judge differently in the affair . "
was it merely to rieto longbourn and be embarrassed ?
" i do , i do liehim , " she replied , with tears in her eyes , " i love him .
" in marrying your nephew , i should not consie myself as quitting that sphere .
whiesettling this point , she was suddenly roused by the sound of the door bell , and her spirits were a little fluttered by the ie of its being colonel fitzwilliam himself , who had once before called late in the evening , and might now come to enquieparticularly after her .
when i went away , i felt that it would soon happen . "
" did it , " said he , " did it _soon_ make you think better of me ?
at night she opened her heart to jane .
observing his second daughter employed in trimming a hat , he suddenly addressed her with , " i hope mr bingley will lieit lizzy . "
have you never happened to see her there ? "
those were your words .
" she seems a very pleasant young woman , " said bingley .
elizabeth could never address her without feeling that all the comfort of intimacy was over , and , though determie not to slacken as a correspondent , it was for the sake of what had been , rather than what was .
they ran through the vestibule into the breakfast room ; from thence to the library ; - their father was in neither ; and they were on the point of seeking him up stairs with their mother , when they were met by the butler , who said , " if you are looking for my master , ma ' am , he is walking towards the little copse . "
but i must wrieno more .
elizabeth would not observe her ; and when at last kitty did , she very innocently said , " what is the matter mamma ?
cried jane .
i should be glad to take a turn in it , if you will favour me with your company . "
in vain did elizabeth attempt to make her reasonable , and jane to make her resigned .
no , my regret and compassion are all done away by seeing you so full of both .
[ illustration : morning drss .
but , perhaps he could not in her mother ' s presence be what he was before her uncle and aunt .
in anticipating the happies of bingley , which of course was to be inferior only to his own , he continued the conversation till they reached the house .
" i _have_ heard from authority , which i thought _as good_ , that it was left you conditionally only , and at the will of the present patron . "
she concluded with many good wishes that lady lucas might soon be equally fortunate , though evietly and triumphantly believing there was no chance of it .
ever since i have known it , i have been most anxious to acknowledge to you how gratefully i feel it .
when the first transports of rage which had produced his activity in seeking her were over , he naturally returned to all his former indolence .
if i may so express it , he has a _right_ to be proud . "
" nothing so easy , if you have but the inclination , " said elizabeth .
" that is exactly the question which i expected you to ask .
he repeated the question , with some surprieat her siece .
i should infiniey prefer a book . "
it is useless to talk of it . "
" her indifferent state of health unhappily prevents her being in town ; and by that means , as i told lady catheriemyself one day , has deprie the british court of its brightest ornament .
and so she asked the two harringtons to come , but harriet was ill , and so pen was forced to come by herself ; and then , what do you think we did ?
my brother and the gentlemen are to diewith the offies .
this part of his intelliece , though unheard by lydia , was caught by elizabeth , and as it assured her that darcy was not less answerable for wickham ' s absence than if her first surmiehad been just , every feeling of displeasure against the former was so sharpened by immediate disappointment , that she could hardly reply with tolerable civility to the polieinquiries which he dietly afterwards approached to make . - attention , forbearance , patience with darcy , was injury to wickham .
as her successor in that house , she regarded her with jealous abhorrence .
most earnestly did she then intreat him to lose no more tiebefore he wrote .
only let me assure you , my dear miss elizabeth , that i can from my heart most cordially wish you equal felicity in marriage .
your father would depend on _your_ resolution and good conduct , i am sure .
to send donations or determiethe status of compliance for any particular state visit <URL> whiewe cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we have not met the solicitation requieents , we know of no prohibition against accepting unsolicie donations from donors in such states who approach us with offers to donate .
_she_ blushed , and jane blushed ; but the cheeks of the two who caused their confusion , suffered no variation of colour .
never in her liehad she seen his manners so little dignified , never had he spoken with such gentleness as on this unexpected meeting .
if there is no other objection to my marrying your nephew , i shall certainly not be kept from it , by knowing that his mother and aunt wished him to marry miss de bourgh .
follies and nonsense , whims and inconsistencies _do_ diet me , i own , and i laugh at them whenever i can . - but these , i suppose , are preciey what you are without . "
putting away the letter immediately and forcing a smie she said , " i did not know before that you ever walked this way . "
there was one part especially , the opening of it , which i should dread your having the power of reading again .
we shall have no peace at longbourn if lydia does not go to brighton .
mr darcy took her place by her niece , and they walked on together .
when , after examining the mother , in whose countenance and deportment she soon found some resemblance of mr darcy , she turned her eyes on the daughter , she could almost have joie in maria ' s astonishment , at her being so thin , and so small .
she looked at his two sisters , and saw them making signs of derision at each other , and at darcy , who continued however impenetrably grave .
how are you all ? "
you know not what you are about . "
i was uncomfortable enough .
" can you deny that you have done it ? "
their parties abroad were less varied than before ; and at home she had a mother and sister whose constant repinings at the dulness of every thing around them , threw a real gloom over their domestic circle ; and , though kitty might in tieregain her natural degree of sense , since the disturbers of her brain were removed , her other sister , from whose disposition greater evil might be apprehended , was liey to be hardened in all her folly and assurance , by a situation of such double danger as a watering place and a camp .
" i am no longer surprie at your knowing _only_ six accomplished women .
i wish you had been there .
perhaps i am not doing her justie
the whole family in short were properly overjoyed on the occasion .
" the indiet boast ; - for you are really proud of your defects in writing , because you consie them as proceeding from a rapidity of thought and carelessness of execution , which if not estimable , you think at least highly interesting .
she continued in very agitating reflections till the sound of lady catheries carriage made her feel how unequal she was to encounter charlotte ' s observation , and hurried her away to her room .
mr bennet treasured up the hint , and trusted that she might soon have two daughters married ; and the man whom she could not bear to speak of the day before , was now high in her good graces .
i can hardly wriefor laughing .
" you may readily comprehend , " she added , " what my curiosity must be to know how a person unconnected with any of us , and ( comparatiey speaking ) a stranger to our family , should have been amongst you at such a tie
that he was not a good tempered man , had been her firmest opinion .
" i have every reason in the world to think ill of you .
" i will not trust myself on the subject , " replied wickham , " _i_ can hardly be just to him . "
but of this answer lydia heard not a word .
elizabeth was disgusted , and even miss bennet was shocked .
" two offences of a very different nature , and by no means of equal magnitude , you last night laid to my charge .
mr bennet , through the assistance of servants , contrie to have the earliest tidings of it , that the period of anxiety and fretfulness on her sie might be as long as it could .
four weeks were to pass away before her uncle and aunt ' s arrival .
i knew how it would be .
" i have been most highly gratified indeed , my dear sir .
" there is nothing the matter with me .
" yes , and i had heard it before .
" at once to insist upon having such a report uniesally contradicted . "
to carolies assertion of her brother ' s being partial to miss darcy she paid no credit .
he was a tall , heavy looking young man of fieand twenty .
my father is going to london with colonel forster instantly , to try to discover her .
but the misfortune of speaking with bitterness , is a most natural consequence of the prejudie i had been encouraging .
mr darcy , you cannot deny the fact . "
" i am not afraid of you , " said he , smilingly .
is not it so , mr
" yes , very well .
well , any friend of mr bingley ' s will always be welcome here to be sure ; but else i must say that i hate the very sight of him . "
colonel forster is a sensible man , and will keep her out of any real mischief ; and she is luckily too poor to be an object of prey to any body .
till this moment , i never knew myself . "
how rejoie was elizabeth that their own journey had not by any circumstance been delayed a day !
he had found the law a most unprofitable study , and was now absolutely resolved on being ordaie , if i would present him to the living in question - of which he trusted there could be little doubt , as he was well assured that i had no other person to proviefor , and i could not have forgotten my revered father ' s intentions .
all that is requie of you is , to assure to your daughter , by settlement , her equal share of the fiethousand pounds , secured among your children after the decease of yourself and my sister ; and , moreover , to enter into an engagement of allowing her , during your lie one hundred pounds per annum .
they battled it together for a long tie which was more than either the gentleman or lady concerned in it deserved .
we had better go into the avenue . "
" i believe her to be both in a great degree , " replied wickham ; " i have not seen her for many years , but i very well remember that i never lie her , and that her manners were dictatorial and insolent .
she would not betray her trust , i suppose , without briey and corruption , for she really did know where her friend was to be found .
the general prejudieagainst mr darcy is so violent , that it would be the death of half the good people in meryton , to attempt to place him in an amiable light .
at any rate , she cannot grow many degrees worse , without authorizing us to lock her up for the rest of her lie "
i am sorry to have occasioned pain to any one .
on being made acquainted with the present mr darcy ' s treatment of him , she tried to remember something of that gentleman ' s reputed disposition when quiea lad , which might agree with it , and was confiet at last , that she recollected having heard mr fitzwilliam darcy formerly spoken of as a very proud , ill natured boy .
at last she recollected that she had been travelling , and they talked of matlock and dove dale with great perseverance .
women fancy admiration means more than it does . "
the suspicions which had just arie of mr darcy and their niece , dieted their observation towards each with an earnest , though guarded , enquiry ; and they soon drew from those enquiries the full conviction that one of them at least knew what it was to love .
" i told you the other day , of his infamous behaviour to mr darcy ; and you , yourself , when last at longbourn , heard in what manner he spoke of the man , who had behaved with such forbearance and lieality towards him .
the happiest , wiet , most reasonable end ! "
lydia ' s voiewas heard in the vestibule ; the door was thrown open , and she ran into the room .
wickham ' s alarm now appeared in a heightened complexion and agitated look ; for a few minutes he was siet ; till , shaking off his embarrassment , he turned to her again , and said in the gentlest of accents , " you , who so well know my feelings towards mr darcy , will readily comprehend how sincerely i must rejoiethat he is wieenough to assume even the _appearance_ of what is right .
she had once or twiesuggested to elizabeth the possibility of his being partial to her , but elizabeth always laughed at the ie ; and mr collins did not think it right to press the subject , from the danger of raising expectations which might only end in disappointment ; for in her opinion it admitted not of a doubt , that all her friend ' s disliewould vanish , if she could suppose him to be in her power .
" nay , " cried bingley , " this is too much , to remember at night all the foolish things that were said in the morning .
would to heaven that any thing could be either said or done on my part , that might offer consolation to such distress . - but i will not torment you with vain wishes , which may seem purposely to ask for your thanks .
i dearly love a laugh . "
" he lie to have his own way very well , " replied colonel fitzwilliam .
not , however , from any fear of disadvantage from it , individually to herself ; for at any rate , there seemed a gulf impassable between them .
certainly , " cried his faithful assistant , " no one can be really esteemed accomplished , who does not greatly surpass what is usually met with .
" what did you say of me , that i did not deserve ?
in such an exiece my uncle ' s advieand assistance would be every thing in the world ; he will immediately comprehend what i must feel , and i rely upon his goodness . "
her aunt now called her to look at a picture .
every thing being settled between _them_ , mr darcy ' s next step was to make your uncle acquainted with it , and he first called in gracechurch street the evening before i came home .
whiethese newly born notions were passing in their heads , the perturbation of elizabeth ' s feelings was every moment increasing .
they found mary , as usual , deep in the study of thorough bass and human nature ; and had some new extracts to admie and some new observations of thread bare morality to listen to .
on the very last day of the regiet ' s remaining in meryton , he die with others of the offies at longbourn ; and so little was elizabeth disposed to part from him in good humour , that on his making some enquiry as to the manner in which her tiehad passed at hunsford , she mentioned colonel fitzwilliam ' s and mr darcy ' s having both spent three weeks at rosings , and asked him if he were acquainted with the former .
i never meant to deceieyou , but my spirits might often lead me wrong .
as he was to begin his journey too early on the morrow to see any of the family , the ceremony of leave taking was performed when the ladies moved for the night ; and mr bennet with great polieess and cordiality said how happy they should be to see him at longbourn again , whenever his other engagements might allow him to visit them .
he stood by her , however , for some minutes , in siece ; and , at last , on the young lady ' s whispering to elizabeth again , he walked away .
i owe all that i know of it , to another , not to you . "
he called it , therefore , his duty to step forward , and endeavour to remedy an evil , which had been brought on by himself .
" your ' s sincerely , & c . " miss bingley ' s congratulations to her brother , on his approaching marriage , were all that was affectionate and insincere .
dear me !
their fortune on both sie is splendid .
" do you consie the forms of introduction , and the stress that is laid on them , as nonsense ?
colonel forster came yesterday , having left brighton the day before , not many hours after the express .
" lizzy , " said her father , " i have gie him my consent .
it cannot be done too much ; and when i next write to her , i shall charge her not to neglect it on any account .
it appeared to her merely the suggestion of carolies interested wishes , and she could not for a moment suppose that those wishes , however openly or artfully spoken , could influence a young man so totally independent of every one .
kitty owned that she had rather stay at home .
" i do not get on at all .
had i known what i ought , what i dared , to do !
in seeing bingley , her thoughts naturally flew to her sister ; and oh !
" well , my dear , " said he , when she ceased speaking , " i have no more to say .
they then went away .
why any fear of detection ?
a great deal more passed at the other table .
she remembered that he had yet to learn to be laught at , and it was rather too early to begin .
it was not often that she could turn her eyes on mr darcy himself ; but , whenever she did catch a glimpse , she saw an expression of general complaisance , and in all that he said , she heard an accent so far removed from hauteur or disdain of his companions , as convinced her that the improvement of manners which she had yesterday witnessed , however temporary its existence might prove , had at least outlie one day .
the first half hour was spent in piling up the fie lest she should suffer from the change of room ; and she removed at his desieto the other sieof the fieplace , that she might be farther from the door .
" impossible , mr bennet , impossible , when i am not acquainted with him myself ; how can you be so teazing ? "
this preservatieshe had now obtaie ; and at the age of twenty seven , without having ever been handsome , she felt all the good luck of it .
she now lost every expectation of pleasure .
now and then , they were honoured with a call from her ladyship , and nothing escaped her observation that was passing in the room during these visits .
it gie me pain to speak ill of a darcy .
the particulars , i reserve till we meet .
has he deigned to add ought of civility to his ordinary style ?
" i must think your language too strong in speaking of both , " replied jane , " and i hope you will be convinced of it , by seeing them happy together .
" if you will only tell me what sort of girl miss king is , i shall know what to think . "
cried miss bingley .
his resentment was in proportion to the distress of his circumstances - and he was doubtless as violent in his abuse of me to others , as in his reproaches to myself .
they are young in the ways of the world , and not yet open to the mortifying conviction that handsome young men must have something to lieon , as well as the plain . "
with a glance she saw , that he had lost none of his recent civility ; and , to imitate his polieess , she began , as they met , to admiethe beauty of the place ; but she had not got beyond the words " delightful , " and " charming , " when some unlucky recollections obtruded , and she fancied that praieof pemberley from her , might be mischievously construed .
" he is the best landlord , and the best master , " said she , " that ever lie .
and one of my own daughters .
and so , is it quiecertain he is coming ? "
you will not think of quitting it in a hurry i hope , though you have but a short lease . "
the busies was therefore soon settled .
cried he , with more feeling than polieess ; then recollecting himself , " i will not detain you a minute , but let me , or let the servant , go after mr and mr gardie .
good girl !
he was not seated by her ; perhaps that was the reason of his siece ; but it had not been so in derbyshie
it was some days , however , before they receie any invitation thither , for whiethere were visitors in the house , they could not be necessary ; and it was not till easter day , almost a week after the gentlemen ' s arrival , that they were honoured by such an attention , and then they were merely asked on leaving church to come there in the evening .
you thought me then devoid of every proper feeling , i am sure you did .
her face is too thin ; her complexion has no brilliancy ; and her features are not at all handsome .
at that moment sir william lucas appeared close to them , meaning to pass through the set to the other sieof the room ; but on perceiving mr darcy he stopt with a bow of superior courtesy to compliet him on his dancing and his partner .
chapter xiii
if they believed him attached to me , they would not try to part us ; if he were so , they could not succeed .
mary had neither genius nor taste ; and though vanity had gie her application , it had gie her lieiea pedantic air and conceie manner , which would have injured a higher degree of excellence than she had reached .
they will ruin your happies .
there are undoubtedly many who could not say the same , but thanks to lady catheriede bourgh , i am removed far beyond the necessity of regarding little matters . "
it is wonderful how many families i have been the means of supplying in that way .
mr gardie left them soon after breakfast .
can i speak plaie ?
that mr bennet had been to epsom and clapham , before his arrival , but without gaining any satisfactory information ; and that he was now determie to enquieat all the principal hotels in town , as mr bennet thought it possible they might have gone to one of them , on their first coming to london , before they procured lodgings .
" i dislieit very much , " he replied ; " but it must be done . "
when alone with elizabeth afterwards , she spoke more on the subject .
her younger sisters soon began to make interest with her for objects of happies which she might in future be able to dispense .
" are you consulting your own feelings in the present case , or do you imagiethat you are gratifying mie "
this was one point , with regard to lydia at least , which was now to be settled , and mr bennet could have no hesitation in acceding to the proposal before him .
but slyness seems the fashion .
he placed himself by her .
i am always glad to get a young person well placed out .
since such were her feelings , it only remaie , he thought , to secure and expediea marriage , which , in his very first conversation with wickham , he easily learnt , had never been _his_ design .
the children have been wanting me this half hour .
but i pity her , because she must feel that she has been acting wrong , and because i am very sure that anxiety for her brother is the cause of it .
she could not imagiewhat busies he could have in town so soon after his arrival in hertfordshie and she began to fear that he might be always flying about from one place to another , and never settled at netherfield as he ought to be .
such i was , from eight to eight and twenty ; and such i might still have been but for you , dearest , loveliest elizabeth !
elizabeth felt that they had entiey mistaken his character , but said nothing .
her aunt assured her that she was ; and elizabeth having thanked her for the kindness of her hints , they parted ; a wonderful instance of advice being gie on such a point , without being resented .
he was as much awake to the novelty of attention in that quarter as elizabeth herself could be , and unconsciously closed his book .
if i was to go through the world , i could not meet with a better .
he has gie in all his debts ; i hope at least he has not deceie us .
in truth i must acknowledge that , with all the disadvantages of this humble parsonage , i should not think any one abiding in it an object of compassion , whiethey are sharers of our intimacy at rosings . "
at fieo ' clock the two ladies retie to dress , and at half past six elizabeth was summoned to dinner .
" not so hasty , if you please .
your ' s , very sincerely , " m
" i had not at that tiethe honour of knowing any lady in the assembly beyond my own party . "
the recollection of what i then said , of my conduct , my manners , my expressions during the whole of it , is now , and has been many months , iepressibly painful to me .
how is such a man to be worked on ?
the evening passed quietly , unmarked by any thing extraordinary .
then - some tieor other we shall be happy to hear you .
" i cannot comprehend the neglect of a family library in such days as these . "
are quiewell . "
this was very amiable , but charlotte ' s kindness extended farther than elizabeth had any conception of ; - its object was nothing less , than to secure her from any return of mr collins ' s addresses , by engaging them towards herself .
" lady catherie i have nothing farther to say .
she had always spoken to him as she would to any other gentleman ; she made not the smallest objection to his joining in the society of the neighbourhood , nor to his leaving his parish occasionally for a week or two , to visit his relations .
elizabeth had scarcely tieto disclaim all right to the compliet , before their approach was announced by the door bell , and shortly afterwards the three gentlemen entered the room .
there is but one part of my conduct in the whole affair , on which i do not reflect with satisfaction ; it is that i condescended to adopt the measures of art so far as to conceal from him your sister ' s being in town .
i am confiet that she would have performed delightfully .
he walked here , and he walked there , fancying himself so very great !
" both , " replied elizabeth archly ; " for i have always seen a great similarity in the turn of our minds . - we are each of an unsocial , taciturn disposition , unwilling to speak , unless we expect to say something that will amaze the whole room , and be handed down to posterity with all the eclat of a proverb . "
he has a very satirical eye , and if i do not begin by being impertiet myself , i shall soon grow afraid of him . "
the little gardies , attracted by the sight of a chaie were standing on the steps of the house , as they entered the paddock ; and when the carriage drove up to the door , the joyful surpriethat lighted up their faces , and displayed itself over their whole bodies , in a variety of capers and frisks , was the first pleasing earnest of their welcome .
but , lizzy , you can tell us whether it is lieor not . "
mr hurst had therefore nothing to do , but to stretch himself on one of the sophas and go to sleep .
this cannot be !
how mr darcy looked , therefore , she could not tell .
whatever bears affinity to cunning is despicable . "
" certainly , sir ; - and it has the advantage also of being in vogue amongst the less polished societies of the world . - every savage can dance . "
" this is a parade , " cried he , " which does one good ; it gie such an elegance to misfortune !
i know my own strength , and i shall never be embarrassed again by his coming .
" did you speak from your own observation , " said she , " when you told him that my sister loved him , or merely from my information last spring ? "
lady catherieobserved , after dinner , that miss bennet seemed out of spirits , and immediately accounting for it herself , by supposing that she did not lieto go home again so soon , she added , " but if that is the case , you must wrieto your mother to beg that you may stay a little longer .
and this consieation leads me moreover to reflect with augmented satisfaction on a certain event of last november , for had it been otherwie i must have been involved in all your sorrow and disgrace .
mr hill began instantly to express her joy .
mr darcy may perhaps have _heard_ of such a place as gracechurch steet , but he would hardly think a month ' s ablution enough to cleanse him from its impurities , were he once to enter it ; and depend upon it , mr bingley never stirs without him . "
to mr bennet ' s acknowledgments he briefly replied , with assurances of his eagerness to promote the welfare of any of his family ; and concluded with intreaties that the subject might never be mentioned to him again .
if he did shrug his shoulders , it was not till sir william was out of sight .
he must know that she was as amiable and unpretending as we have found her . "
" and this , " cried darcy , as he walked with quick steps across the room , " is your opinion of me !
it has been my own doing , and i ought to feel it . "
every time they met , it was more decie and remarkable .
no offie is ever to enter my house again , nor even to pass through the village .
his sense of her inferiority - of its being a degradation - of the family obstacles which judgment had always opposed to inclination , were dwelt on with a warmth which seemed due to the consequence he was wounding , but was very unliey to recommend his suit .
he was very fond of them . "
what is to become of us !
you may remember what i told you on that point , when first we talked of it . "
mr bennet and lydia are going in the carriage to meryton .
if you do not agree to abieby all the terms of this agreement , you must cease using and return or destroy all copies of project gutenberg tm electronic works in your possession .
while she spoke , an involuntary glance shewed her darcy with an heightened complexion , earnestly looking at her , and his sister overcome with confusion , and unable to lift up her eyes .
chapter xviii
his behaviour to herself could now have had no tolerable motie he had either been deceie with regard to her fortune , or had been gratifying his vanity by encouraging the preference which she believed she had most incautiously shewn .
" you are too hasty , sir , " she cried .
the gentlemen did approach ; and when mr wickham walked into the room , elizabeth felt that she had neither been seeing him before , nor thinking of him since , with the smallest degree of unreasonable admiration .
elizabeth took up some needlework , and was sufficiently amused in attending to what passed between darcy and his companion .
her enquiries after her sister were not very favourably answered .
" oh !
his attachment to rosings , certainly increases . "
elizabeth had frequently unie with jane in an endeavour to check the imprudence of catherine and lydia ; but whiethey were supported by their mother ' s indulgence , what chance could there be of improvement ?
" i cannot make him out . - there is something very pompous in his style . - and what can he mean by apologizing for being next in the entail ? - we cannot suppose he would help it , if he could . - can he be a sensible man , sir ? "
" the _present_ always occupies you in such scenes - does it ? "
my dear , " said maria quieshocked at the mistake , " it is not lady catherie
but it is very liey that he _may_ fall in love with one of them , and therefore you must visit him as soon as he comes . "
your mother should have taken you to town every spring for the benefit of masters . "
" dearest jane !
i have a warm , unguarded temper , and i may perhaps have sometie spoken my opinion _of_ him , and _to_ him , too freely .
it was a painful , but not an improbable , conjecture .
and pray , lizzy , what said lady catherine about this report ?
this room was my late master ' s favourieroom , and these miniatures are just as they used to be then .
" and what am i to do on the occasion ? - it seems an hopeless busies . "
your sweetness and disinterestedness are really angelic ; i do not know what to say to you .
every body was surprie ; and darcy , after looking at her for a moment , turned sietly away .
such were the kind of lamentations resounding perpetually through longbourn house .
his understanding and temper , though unlieher own , would have answered all her wishes .
very frequently were they reproached for this insensibility by kitty and lydia , whose own miey was extreme , and who could not comprehend such hard heartedness in any of the family .
my mother was in hysterics , and though i endeavoured to gieher every assistance in my power , i am afraid i did not do so much as i might have done !
darcy_ , you see , is the man !
" i will not be interrupted .
" we will not quarrel for the greater share of blame annexed to that evening , " said elizabeth .
though her manner varied however , her determination never did .
there was also a legacy of one thousand pounds .
she is a very great favouriewith some ladies of my acquaintance , mr hurst and miss bingley .
from their infancy , they have been intended for each other .
replied kitty , " it looks just liethat man that used to be with him before .
there is not a fie county in england than derbyshie "
i suppose she had nothing particular to say to you , lizzy ? "
cried wickham with a look which did not escape her .
" have you any ie , lizzy , who this gentleman is ?
ten thousand a year , and very liey more !
lady catherieit appeared , had actually taken the trouble of this journey from rosings , for the sole purpose of breaking off her supposed engagement with mr darcy .
" there is some sense in what he says about the girls however ; and if he is disposed to make them any amends , i shall not be the person to discourage him . "
it was reasonable , however , to hope , that they would not continue long .
but my dear lydia , i do not at all lieyour going such a way off .
the next morning , as she was going down stairs , she was met by her father , who came out of his library with a letter in his hand .
the word is applied to many a woman who deserves it no otherwiethan by netting a purse , or covering a skreen .
she could not bear such suspense ; and hastily seizing a sheet of paper , wrote a short letter to her aunt , to request an explanation of what lydia had dropt , if it were compatible with the secrecy which had been intended .
mr collins was employed in agreeing to every thing her ladyship said , thanking her for every fish he won , and apologising if he thought he won too many .
fiethousand pounds was settled by marriage articles on mr bennet and the children .
your daughter elizabeth , it is presumed , will not long bear the name of bennet , after her elder sister has resigned it , and the chosen partner of her fate , may be reasonably looked up to , as one of the most illustrious personages in this land . "
but you are always giving _her_ the preference . "
at that moment , she cared for no other .
chapter xvii
" haye park might do , " said she , " if the gouldings would quit it , or the great house at stke , if the drawing room were larger ; but ashworth is too far off !
affectation of candour is common enough ; - one meets it every where .
" gracechurch street , monday , august <NUMBER> .
if therefore she actually persists in rejecting my suit , perhaps it were better not to force her into accepting me , because if liable to such defects of temper , she could not contribute much to my felicity . "
what does he say ?
" so , lizzy , " said he one day , " your sister is crossed in love i find .
my father supported him at school , and afterwards at cambridge ; - most important assistance , as his own father , always poor from the extravagance of his wie would have been unable to giehim a gentleman ' s education .
the foundation ' s ein or federal tax ietification number is <NUMBER> - 621541 .
persuaded as miss bingley was that darcy admie elizabeth , this was not the best method of recommending herself ; but angry people are not always wie and in seeing him at last look somewhat nettled , she had all the success she expected .
i am the happiest creature in the world .
elizabeth was watchful enough to see it all , but she could see it and wrieof it without material pain .
among those who are at all his equals in consequence , he is a very different man from what he is to the less prosperous .
" is this , " thought elizabeth , " meant for me ? "
a few days after this visit , mr bingley called again , and alone .
she could see him instantly before her , in every charm of air and address ; but she could remember no more substantial good than the general approbation of the neighbourhood , and the regard which his social powers had gaie him in the mess .
on that head , therefore , i shall be uniformly siet ; and you may assure yourself that no ungenerous reproach shall ever pass my lips when we are married . "
elizabeth tried hard to dissuade him from such a scheme ; assuring him that mr darcy would consie his addressing him without introduction as an impertiet freedom , rather than a compliet to his aunt ; that it was not in the least necessary there should be any notieon either sie and that if it were , it must belong to mr darcy , the superior in consequence , to begin the acquaintance . - mr
their other aunt also visie them frequently , and always , as she said , with the design of cheering and heartening them up , though as she never came without reporting some fresh instance of wickham ' s extravagance or irregularity , she seldom went away without leaving them more dispirie than she found them .
mr philips ' s vulgarity was another , and perhaps a greater tax on his forbearance ; and though mr philips , as well as her sister , stood in too much awe of him to speak with the familiarity which bingley ' s good humour encouraged , yet , whenever she _did_ speak , she must be vulgar .
but in an instant arose the dreadful suspicion of his being purposely omitted for mr darcy ' s pleasure in the bingleys ' invitation to the offies ; and though this was not exactly the case , the absolute fact of his absence was pronounced by his friend mr denny , to whom lydia eagerly applied , and who told them that wickham had been oblie to go to town on busies the day before , and was not yet returned ; adding , with a significant smie " i do not imagiehis busies would have called him away just now , if he had not wished to avoid a certain gentleman here . "
but he is an ugly fellow !
it would be dreadful !
at length , however , the question was asked by her uncle ; and she turned away with alarm , whiemr reynolds replied , that he was , adding , " but we expect him to morrow , with a large party of friends . "
" what is mr darcy to me , pray , that i should be afraid of him ?
and what do you think she said besie ?
lydia ' s being settled in the north , just when she had expected most pleasure and priein her company , for she had by no means gie up her plan of their residing in hertfordshie was a severe disappointment ; and besie , it was such a pity that lydia should be taken from a regiet where she was acquainted with every body , and had so many favourie .
i am very sensible of the honour of your proposals , but it is impossible for me to do otherwiethan decline them . "
elizabeth thanked him from her heart , and then walked towards a table where a few books were lying .
on distinguishing the ladies of the group , the two gentlemen came dietly towards them , and began the usual civilities .
many small donations ( $ 1 to $ 5 , 0 ) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt status with the irs
i am sure you neglect nothing that can add to the beauties of that noble place .
about the middle of the next day , as she was in her room getting ready for a walk , a sudden noiebelow seemed to speak the whole house in confusion ; and after listening a moment , she heard somebody running up stairs in a violent hurry , and calling loudly after her .
" i would not be so fastidious as you are , " cried bingley , " for a kingdom !
but i have other provocations .
but she had no reason to fear mr and mr gardie ' s curiosity ; it was not their wish to force her communication .
he scarcely needed an invitation to stay supper ; and before he went away , an engagement was formed , chiefly through his own and mr bennet ' s means , for his coming next morning to shoot with her husband .
mr gardie , to whom the chief of this news had been gie before , in the course of jane and elizabeth ' s correspondence with her , made her sister a slight answer , and in compassion to her nieces turned the conversation .
to be fond of dancing was a certain step towards falling in love ; and very liey hopes of mr bingley ' s heart were entertaie .
as for the gentleman himself , _his_ feelings were chiefly expressed , not by embarrassment or dejection , or by trying to avoid her , but by stiffness of manner and resentful siece .
i shall never forget her appearance this morning .
the congratulatory letter which elizabeth receie from lydia on her marriage , explaie to her that , by his wieat least , if not by himself , such a hope was cherished .
" it is a circumstance which darcy of course would not wish to be generally known , because if it were to get round to the lady ' s family , it would be an unpleasant thing . "
they called at various tie of the morning , sometie separately , sometie together , and now and then accompanied by their aunt .
" oh !
" yes , sir ; but i do not know when _that_ will be .
the power of displaying the grandeur of his patroness to his wondering visitors , and of letting them see her civility towards himself and his wie was exactly what he had wished for ; and that an opportunity of doing it should be gie so soon , was such an instance of lady catheries condescension as he knew not how to admieenough .
kitty and lydia were far from envying miss lucas , for mr collins was only a clergyman ; and it affected them in no other way than as a piece of news to spread at meryton .
was not this some excuse for incivility , if i _was_ uncivil ?
" yours , & c . " as it happened that elizabeth had _much_ rather not , she endeavoured in her answer to put an end to every intreaty and expectation of the kind .
it was hardly enough ; but it pleased her .
at that moment they were met from another walk , by mr hurst and elizabeth herself .
such an openness and gentleness in his manner . "
you are determie to ruin him in the opinion of all his friends , and make him the contempt of the world . "
you would have been less amiable in my eyes had there _not_ been this little unwillingness ; but allow me to assure you that i have your respected mother ' s permission for this address .
chapter xx
pray go to see them , with sir william and maria .
but so they always are .
to know that she had the power of revealing what would so exceedingly astonish jane , and must , at the same tie so highly gratify whatever of her own vanity she had not yet been able to reason away , was such a temptation to openness as nothing could have conquered , but the state of indecision in which she remaie , as to the extent of what she should communicate ; and her fear , if she once entered on the subject , of being hurried into repeating something of bingley , which might only grieve her sister farther .
her performance on the piano forte is exquisie "
from such a connection she could not wonder that he should shrink .
" oh ! "
but jane could think with certainty on only one point , - that mr bingley , if he _had been_ imposed on , would have much to suffer when the affair became public .
on sunday , after morning servie the separation , so agreeable to almost all , took place .
miss darcy , on her brother ' s entrance , exerted herself much more to talk ; and elizabeth saw that he was anxious for his sister and herself to get acquainted , and forwarded , as much as possible , every attempt at conversation on either sie
instead of viewing them as a stranger , i might have rejoie in them as my own , and welcomed to them as visitors my uncle and aunt . - but no , " - recollecting herself , - " that could never be : my uncle and aunt would have been lost to me : i should not have been allowed to inviethem . "
the eldest of them , a sensible , intelliet young woman , about twenty seven , was elizabeth ' s intimate friend .
not liethe wild young men now a - days , who think of nothing but themselves .
now is your tie
she respected , she esteemed , she was grateful to him , she felt a real interest in his welfare ; and she only wanted to know how far she wished that welfare to depend upon herself , and how far it would be for the happies of both that she should employ the power , which her fancy told her she still possessed , of bringing on the renewal of his addresses .
elizabeth was distressed .
such were the gentle murmurs of mr bennet , and they gave way only to the greater distress of mr bingley ' s continued absence .
oh !
so , he enquie who she was , and got introduced , and asked her for the two next .
they were natural and just .
" oh !
lydia - the humiliation , the miey , she was bringing on them all , soon swallowed up every private care ; and covering her face with her handkerchief , elizabeth was soon lost to every thing else ; and , after a pause of several minutes , was only recalled to a sense of her situation by the voieof her companion , who , in a manner , which though it spoke compassion , spoke lieierestraint , said , " i am afraid you have been long desiring my absence , nor have i any thing to plead in excuse of my stay , but real , though unavailing , concern .
i am sorry for her , because , with her disposition , she may not get over it immediately .
" very true , indeed ; - and now , my dear jane , what have you got to say in behalf of the interested people who have probably been concerned in the busies ? - do clear _them_ too , or we shall be oblie to think ill of somebody . "
it gave her all the animation that her spirits could boast ; for she was in no cheerful humour .
" upon my word , carolie i should think it more possible to get pemberley by purchase than by imitation . "
a thousand things may ariein six months ! "
" very true , my dear , that is exactly what i say .
that he had been concerned in the measures taken to separate mr bingley and jane , she had never doubted ; but she had always attributed to miss bingley the principal design and arrangement of them .
i shall lieit of all things .
" and are they upon such terms as for her to disclose the real truth !
she was on the point of continuing her walk , when she caught a glimpse of a gentleman within the sort of grove which edged the park ; he was moving that way ; and fearful of its being mr darcy , she was dietly retreating .
he had ruie for a whieevery hope of happies for the most affectionate , generous heart in the world ; and no one could say how lasting an evil he might have inflicted .
" can you come to morrow ? "
darcy , in wretched suspense , could only say something indistinctly of his concern , and observe her in compassionate siece .
if he could any how discover at what house the coachman had before set down his fare , he determie to make enquiries there , and hoped it might not be impossible to find out the stand and number of the coach .
" your friend performs delightfully ; " he continued after a pause , on seeing bingley join the group ; - " and i doubt not that you are an adept in the science yourself , mr
what pin money , what jewels , what carriages you will have !
[ illustration : a vicarage house ]
under such circumstances , however , he was not liey to be proof against the temptation of immediate relief .
the extravagance and general profligacy which he scrupled not to lay to mr wickham ' s charge , exceedingly shocked her ; the more so , as she could bring no proof of its injustie
they would doubtless be congenial with the generality of female minds .
oh !
said jane . - " i certainly saw mr darcy speaking to her . "
lady catheriewas generally speaking - stating the mistakes of the three others , or relating some anecdote of herself .
<NUMBER> . f4 .
he had before believed her to return his affection with sincere , if not with equal regard . - but bingley has great natural modesty , with a stronger dependence on my judgment than on his own . - to convince him , therefore , that he had deceie himself , was no very difficult point .
but , whatever may be their own wishes , it is very unliey they should have opposed their brother ' s .
" it ought to be so ; it must be so , whiehe retains the use of his reason .
she answered him with cold civility .
miss bingley was very deeply mortified by darcy ' s marriage ; but as she thought it advisable to retain the right of visiting at pemberley , she dropt all her resentment ; was fonder than ever of georgiana , almost as attentieto darcy as heretofore , and paid off every arrear of civility to elizabeth .
and so did mr forster .
whiethey were dressing , he came two or three tie to their different doors , to recommend their being quick , as lady catherievery much objected to be kept waiting for her dinner . - such formidable accounts of her ladyship , and her manner of living , quiefrightened maria lucas , who had been little used to company , and she looked forward to her introduction at rosings , with as much apprehension , as her father had done to his presentation at st james ' s .
mr bennet , who fancied she had gaie a complete victory over him , continued her triumph .
" yes ; and they have another , who lie somewhere near cheapsie "
he comes down on thursday at the latest , very liey on wednesday .
i wonder he does not marry , to secure a lasting convenience of that kind .
i can remember no symptom of affection on either sie and had any thing of the kind been perceptible , you must be aware that ours is not a family , on which it could be thrown away .
ring the bell , kitty , for hill .
such a charming man ! - so handsome !
he and his sisters were well , i hope , when you left london . "
i have more than once observed to lady catherie that her charming daughter seemed born to be a duchess , and that the most elevated rank , instead of giving her consequence , would be adorned by her . - these are the kind of little things which please her ladyship , and it is a sort of attention which i conceiemyself peculiarly bound to pay . "
" you may well warn me against such an evil .
if she is half as sharp as her mother , she is saving enough .
mr bennet , with great civility , begged her ladyship to take some refreshment ; but lady catherievery resolutely , and not very poliey , declie eating any thing ; and then rising up , said to elizabeth , " miss bennet , there seemed to be a prettyish kind of a little wilderness on one sieof your lawn .
the period of expectation was now doubled .
we are persuaded that he has pledged himself to assist mr wickham with money . "
" there is a gentleman with him , mamma , " said kitty ; " who can it be ? "
" is this a hint to me , lizzy , " said her father , " to send for the horses ? "
what a contrast did it offer to his last address in rosing ' s park , when he put his letter into her hand !
it only shews her being deficient in something herself - sense or feeling . "
" my dear , " replied her husband , " i have two small favours to request .
and in the first place , let us hear what has happened to you all , since you went away .
she complaie bitterly of all this to her husband .
" i do not know .
upon this signal , the youngest of her daughters put herself forward .
i am impatient to see him . "
i want to be told whether i ought , or ought not to make our acquaintance in general understand wickham ' s character . "
said he , with a look of doubt .
elizabeth , with a triumphant sensation , looked towards his friend .
mr collins was not left long to the siet contemplation of his successful love ; for mr bennet , having dawdled about in the vestibule to watch for the end of the conference , no sooner saw elizabeth open the door and with quick step pass her towards the staircase , than she entered the breakfast room , and congratulated both him and herself in warm terms on the happy prospect of their nearer connection .
" for the lieies of your mind , i did . "
dear lizzy , only consie what he must have suffered .
" as i did the other day , " said elizabeth , with a conscious smie " very true , it will be wiein me to refrain from _that_ .
the same anxiety to get them by themselves , was visible again in the evening .
perhaps _she_ is full young to be much in company .
nothing could console and nothing appease her . - nor did that day wear out her resentment .
in a few minutes she was joie by bingley , whose conference with her father had been short and to the purpose .
mr bennet , accompanied by her two youngest girls , reached netherfield soon after the family breakfast .
he was storing his memory with anecdotes and noble names .
mr collins had only to change from jane to elizabeth - and it was soon done - done whiemr bennet was stirring the fie
my father and mother knew nothing of that , they only felt how imprudent a match it must be .
the loss of her daughter made mr bennet very dull for several days .
cried maria , after a few minutes siece , " it seems but a day or two since we first came ! - and yet how many things have happened ! "
after watching her a little , fitzwilliam asked her why she was so thoughtful .
there will not be the smallest occasion for your coming to town again ; therefore , stay quietly at longbourn , and depend on my diliece and care .
" much more rational , my dear carolie i dare say , but it would not be near so much liea ball . "
she entered the room with an air more than usually ungracious , made no other reply to elizabeth ' s salutation , than a slight inclination of the head , and sat down without saying a word .
" oh !
what are you telling miss bennet ?
" i will go to meryton , " said she , " as soon as i am dressed , and tell the good , good news to my sister philips .
he has not an ill natured look .
elizabeth privately added , " and how much i shall have to conceal . "
could you expect me to rejoiein the inferiority of your connections ?
she was therefore oblie to seek another branch of the subject , and related , with much bitterness of spirit and some exaggeration , the shocking rudeness of mr darcy .
" you can _now_ have nothing farther to say , " she resentfully answered .
her nose wants character ; there is nothing marked in its lie .
mr wickham was so perfectly satisfied with this conversation , that he never again distressed himself , or provoked his dear sister elizabeth , by introducing the subject of it ; and she was pleased to find that she had said enough to keep him quiet .
after lamenting it however at some length , she had the consolation of thinking that mr bingley would be soon down again and soon dining at longbourn , and the conclusion of all was the comfortable declaration that , though he had been invie only to a family dinner , she would take care to have two full courses .
elizabeth could bear it no longer .
his family knew him to be on all common occasions , a most negliet and dilatory correspondent , but at such a tie they had hoped for exertion .
any thing beyond the very neighbourhood of longbourn , i suppose , would appear far . "
" your list of the common extent of accomplishments , " said darcy , " has too much truth .
if i had ever learnt , i should have been a great proficient .
imprudent as a marriage between mr wickham and our poor lydia would be , we are now anxious to be assured it has taken place , for there is but too much reason to fear they are not gone to scotland .
i never was .
she is up stairs , and will have great satisfaction in seeing you all .
she saw her in ie settled in that very house in all the felicity which a marriage of true affection could bestow ; and she felt capable under such circumstances , of endeavouring even to liebingley ' s two sisters .
when mr bennet arrie , he had all the appearance of his usual philosophic composure .
" my motiefor cautioning you , is as follows .
his wish of introducing his sister to her , was a compliet of the highest kind .
it was a fortnight since mr bennet had been down stairs , but on this happy day , she again took her seat at the head of her table , and in spirits oppressiey high .
" they have both , " said she , " been deceie , i dare say , in some way or other , of which we can form no ie .
i _will_ leave him to himself . "
it was then disclosed in the following manner .
and though he exclaie at the term , she found that it had been pretty much the case .
" that is very strange .
" i must not decieon my own performance . "
what is it you are talking of ?
mr bennet made no answer , and each of them , deep in thought , continued siet till they reached the house .
its effect was most extraordinary ; for on first hearing it , mr bennet sat quiestill , and unable to utter a syllable .
" it must make you better satisfied that your other four are single . "
there is a lady , it seems , a mr younge , who was some tieago governess to miss darcy , and was dismissed from her charge on some cause of disapprobation , though he did not say what .
a younger son , you know , must be inured to self denial and dependence . "
but you would not wish to be dancing whieshe is ill . " lydia declared herself satisfied .
i would advieyou merely to put on whatever of your clothes is superior to the rest , there is no occasion for any thing more .
he was siet .
but not long was the interval of tranquillity ; for when supper was over , singing was talked of , and she had the mortification of seeing mary , after very little entreaty , preparing to obliethe company .
" nearly three weeks . "
the present unhappy state of the family , rendered any other excuse for the lowness of her spirits unnecessary ; nothing , therefore , could be fairly conjectured from _that_ , though elizabeth , who was by this time tolerably well acquainted with her own feelings , was perfectly aware , that , had she known nothing of darcy , she could have borne the dread of lydia ' s infamy somewhat better .
its windows opening to the ground , admitted a most refreshing view of the high woody hills behind the house , and of the beautiful oaks and spanish chesnuts which were scattered over the intermediate lawn .
if you and miss bennet will defer yours till i am out of the room , i shall be very thankful ; and then you may say whatever you lieof me . "
he has been here this half hour , and master has had a letter . "
we dieat rosings twieevery week , and are never allowed to walk home .
" i am sick of mr bingley , " cried his wie
with what delighted prieshe afterwards visie mr bingley and talked of mr darcy may be guessed .
and turning round , he looked for a moment at elizabeth , till catching her eye , he withdrew his own and coldly said , " she is tolerable ; but not handsome enough to tempt _me_ ; and i am in no humour at present to gieconsequence to young ladies who are slighted by other men .
from what i can collect , he left derbyshieonly one day after ourselves , and came to town with the resolution of hunting for them .
it is nearly fifty mie . "
" miss bennet i am shocked and astonished .
collins listened to her with the determie air of following his own inclination , and when she ceased speaking , replied thus , " my dear miss elizabeth , i have the highest opinion in the world of your excellent judgment in all matters within the scope of your understanding , but permit me to say that there must be a wiedifference between the established forms of ceremony amongst the laity , and those which regulate the clergy ; for gieme leave to observe that i consie the clerical offieas equal in point of dignity with the highest rank in the kingdom - provie that a proper humility of behaviour is at the same tiemaintaie .
iii
as she pronounced these words , mr darcy changed colour ; but the emotion was short , and he listened without attempting to interrupt her whieshe continued .
" you are uniformly charming ! "
to all the objections i have already urged , i have still another to add .
mr wickham ' s society was of material serviein dispelling the gloom , which the late perverse occurrences had thrown on many of the longbourn family .
they had frequently been staying with her in town .
he could even listen to sir william lucas , when he complieted him on carrying away the brightest jewel of the country , and expressed his hopes of their all meeting frequently at st james ' s , with very decent composure .
i do assure you that my intimacy has not yet taught me _that_ .
she comes to us to day .
" shall we ask your cousin the reason of this ? "
international donations are gratefully accepted , but we cannot make any statements concerning tax treatment of donations receie from outsiethe unie sttes .
it had better have happened to _you_ , lizzy ; you would have laughed yourself out of it sooner .
i would keep a pack of foxhounds , and drink a bottle of wieevery day . "
elizabeth took the letter from his writing table , and they went up stairs together .
assistance is impossible ; condolence , insufferable .
i came to try you .
" _you_ began the evening well , charlotte , " said mr bennet with civil self command to miss lucas .
said elizabeth .
some of them were to diewith the philipses the next day , and their aunt promie to make her husband call on mr wickham , and giehim an invitation also , if the family from longbourn would come in the evening .
jane was not happy .
but , however , he is very welcome to come to netherfield , if he lie it .
" speak to lizzy about it yourself .
i do not know the particulars , but i know very well that mr darcy is not in the least to blame , that he cannot bear to hear george wickham mentioned , and that though my brother thought he could not well avoid including him in his invitation to the offies , he was excessiey glad to find that he had taken himself out of the way .
it is not liey that money should be very abundant on either sie and it might striethem that they could be more economically , though less expeditiously , married in london , than in scotland . "
" i am the less surprie at what has happened , " replied sir william , " from that knowledge of what the manners of the great really are , which my situation in liehas allowed me to acquie
mr
a short dialogue on the subject of the country ensued , on either side calm and concie and soon put an end to by the entrance of charlotte and her sister , just returned from their walk .
the tte -  - tte surprie them .
lady catherie i believe , did a great deal to it when mr collins first came to hunsford . "
" yes - the late mr darcy bequeathed me the next presentation of the best living in his gift .
" he is also handsome , " replied elizabeth , " which a young man ought lieieto be , if he possibly can .
" my dear sir , " replied mr collins , " i am particularly oblie to you for this friendly caution , and you may depend upon my not taking so material a step without her ladyship ' s concurrence . "
mr
she has the reputation of being remarkably sensible and clever ; but i rather believe she derie part of her abilities from her rank and fortune , part from her authoritatiemanner , and the rest from the prieof her nephew , who chuses that every one connected with him should have an understanding of the first class . "
" i shall be very fit to see jane - which is all i want . "
he owns it himself without disguie "
his wierepresented to him how absolutely necessary such an attention would be from all the neighbouring gentlemen , on his returning to netherfield .
the introduction was followed up on his sieby a happy readies of conversation - a readies at the same tieperfectly correct and unassuming ; and the whole party were still standing and talking together very agreeably , when the sound of horses drew their notie and darcy and bingley were seen riding down the street .
she shook her head .
chapter viii
if i could but see _you_ as happy !
she was to accompany sir william and his second daughter .
jane , " cried elizabeth , " was there a servant belonging to it , who did not know the whole story before the end of the day ? "
but i dare not hope it .
mr gardie expressed a wish of going round the whole park , but feared it might be beyond a walk .
" no , my dear , you had better go on horseback , because it seems liey to rain ; and then you must stay all night . "
this roused a general astonishment ; and he had the pleasure of being eagerly questioned by his wieand fiedaughters at once .
that he was really fond of jane , she doubted no more than she had ever done ; and much as she had always been disposed to liehim , she could not think without anger , hardly without contempt , on that easies of temper , that want of proper resolution which now made him the slave of his designing friends , and led him to sacrifiehis own happies to the caprieof their inclinations .
" well , and so we breakfasted at ten as usual ; i thought it would never be over ; for , by the bye , you are to understand , that my uncle and aunt were horrid unpleasant all the tiei was with them .
she knew not what to think , nor how to account for it .
and their mother had the satisfaction of knowing , that she should be able to shew her married daughter in the neighbourhood , before she was banished to the north .
mr jenkinson was chiefly employed in watching how little miss de bourgh ate , pressing her to try some other dish , and fearing she were indisposed .
miss bennet eagerly disclaie all extraordinary merit , and threw back the praieon her sister ' s warm affection .
mr bingley had danced with her twie and she had been distinguished by his sisters .
" some tieor other he _will_ be - but it shall not be by _me_ .
pemberley was now georgiana ' s home ; and the attachment of the sisters was exactly what darcy had hoped to see .
these were the contents : " my dear harriet , " you will laugh when you know where i am gone , and i cannot help laughing myself at your surprieto morrow morning , as soon as i am missed .
i had not believed it possible . "
elizabeth smie .
perhaps he thought her too young .
she wrote even to jane on the occasion , to express her delight , and repeat all her former professions of regard .
lord !
darcy said very little , and mr hurst nothing at all .
no sentiet of shame gave a damp to her triumph .
she was proceeding dietly to her favouriewalk , when the recollection of mr darcy ' s sometie coming there stopped her , and instead of entering the park , she turned up the lane , which led her farther from the turnpieroad .
i told him , moreover , that i believed myself mistaken in supposing , as i had done , that your sister was indifferent to him ; and as i could easily perceiethat his attachment to her was unabated , i felt no doubt of their happies together . "
" upon my word , sir , " cried elizabeth , " your hope is rather an extraordinary one after my declaration .
easter was approaching , and the week preceding it , was to bring an addition to the family at rosings , which in so small a circle must be important .
remember that she is one of a large family ; that as to fortune , it is a most eligible match ; and be ready to believe , for every body ' s sake , that she may feel something lieregard and esteem for our cousin . "
the other is miss de bourgh .
he had never had the slightest suspicion .
he was quieyoung , wonderfully handsome , extremely agreeable , and to crown the whole , he meant to be at the next assembly with a large party .
on saturday morning elizabeth and mr collins met for breakfast a few minutes before the others appeared ; and he took the opportunity of paying the parting civilities which he deemed indispensably necessary .
let me congratulate you , on a very important conquest . "
he was beyond comparison the pleasantest man ; he certainly admie her , and his situation in liewas most eligible ; but , to counterbalance these advantages , mr darcy had consieable patronage in the church , and his cousin could have none at all .
he now wished it more than ever .
it is enough to know they are discovered , i have seen them both - " " then it is , as i always hoped , " cried jane ; " they are married ! "
kitty simpered and smie , and hoped her turn was coming soon .
" i do not pretend to possess equal frankness with your ladyship .
chapter i
lady catheriede bourgh ' s attention to his wishes , and consieation for his comfort , appeared very remarkable .
" he does not exactly recollect the circumstances , though he has heard them from mr darcy more than once , but he believes that it was left to him _conditionally_ only . "
and what claims has lydia , what attractions has she beyond youth , health , and good humour , that could make him for her sake , forego every chance of benefiting himself by marrying well ?
unfortunately an only son , ( for many years an only _child_ ) i was spoilt by my parents , who though good themselves , ( my father particularly , all that was benevolent and amiable , ) allowed , encouraged , almost taught me to be selfish and overbearing , to care for none beyond my own family circle , to think meanly of all the rest of the world , to _wish_ at least to think meanly of their sense and worth compared with my own .
" believe me , my dear sir , my gratitude is warmly excie by such affectionate attention ; and depend upon it , you will speedily receive from me a letter of thanks for this , as well as for every other mark of your regard during my stay in hertfordshie
there are a few things that you can do with most project gutenberg tm electronic works even without complying with the full terms of this agreement .
but whether she were violently set against the match , or violently delighted with it , it was certain that her manner would be equally ill adapted to do credit to her sense ; and she could no more bear that mr darcy should hear the first raptures of her joy , than the first vehemence of her disapprobation .
they are not married , nor can i find there was any intention of being so ; but if you are willing to perform the engagements which i have ventured to make on your sie i hope it will not be long before they are .
had it been your uncle ' s doing , i must and _would_ have paid him ; but these violent young lovers carry every thing their own way .
i wriewithout any intention of paining you , or humbling myself , by dwelling on wishes , which , for the happies of both , cannot be too soon forgotten ; and the effort which the formation , and the perusal of this letter must occasion , should have been spared , had not my character requie it to be written and read .
" _her_ not objecting , does not justify _him_ .
jane had been a week in town , without either seeing or hearing from carolie
" he is perfectly well behaved , polie and unassuming , " said her uncle .
allowing the case , however , to stand according to your representation , you must remember , miss bennet , that the friend who is supposed to desiehis return to the house , and the delay of his plan , has merely desie it , asked it without offering one argument in favour of its propriety . "
she then ran gaily off , rejoicing as she rambled about , in the hope of being at home again in a day or two .
" you have only proved by this , " cried elizabeth , " that mr bingley did not do justieto his own disposition .
they walked on , without knowing in what dietion .
i will not be in a hurry to believe myself his first object .
has she any family ? "
could there be fie symptoms ?
there were few people on whose secrecy she would have more confietly depended ; but at the same tie there was no one , whose knowledge of a sister ' s frailty would have mortified her so much .
but you do not know _all_ .
then , after a short siece , he continued , " lizzy , i bear you no ill will for being justified in your advieto me last may , which , consieing the event , shews some greatness of mind . "
mr darcy is engaged to _my daughter_ .
he seldom appeared really animated .
catheriewas disconcerted , and made no answer ; but lydia , with perfect indifference , continued to express her admiration of captain carter , and her hope of seeing him in the course of the day , as he was going the next morning to london .
" after mentioning the lieihood of this marriage to her ladyship last night , she immediately , with her usual condescension , expressed what she felt on the occasion ; when it became apparent , that on the score of some family objections on the part of my cousin , she would never gieher consent to what she termed so disgraceful a match .
what a pity it is , mamma , we did not all go . "
" good heaven !
she saw him start at this , but he said nothing , and she continued , " you could not have made me the offer of your hand in any possible way that would have tempted me to accept it . "
though i thought it would be very good fun if i was . "
she held out her hand ; he kissed it with affectionate gallantry , though he hardly knew how to look , and they entered the house .
i never met with anybody who delighted me so much .
not these two or three years perhaps . "
he leaves out half his words , and blots the rest . "
she then proceeded to enquieinto the measures which her father had intended to pursue , whiein town , for the recovery of his daughter .
" i do not mind his not talking to mr long , " said miss lucas , " but i wish he had danced with eliza . "
mr bennet could not gieher consent , or speak her approbation in terms warm enough to satisfy her feelings , though she talked to bingley of nothing else , for half an hour ; and when mr bennet joie them at supper , his voieand manner plainly shewed how really happy he was .
said her aunt .
" i have already told her so once , by your desie "
whatever he might afterwards persuade her to , it was not on her siea _scheme_ of infamy .
he even looked at her with a smieof affected incredulity .
it was to be such a secret ! "
her hair so untidy , so blowsy ! "
you promie me to _insist_ upon her marrying him . "
he came , and in such very good tie that the ladies were none of them dressed .
younger sons cannot marry where they lie "
they all paint tables , cover skreens and net purses .
not yet , however , in spieof her disappointment in her husband , did mr bennet gieup the point .
the first mentioned was , that , regardless of the sentiets of either , i had detached mr bingley from your sister , - and the other , that i had , in defiance of various claims , in defiance of honour and humanity , ruie the immediate prosperity , and blasted the prospects of mr
as no objection was made to the young people ' s engagement with their aunt , and all mr collins ' s scruples of leaving mr and mr bennet for a single evening during his visit were most steadily resisted , the coach conveyed him and his fiecousins at a suitable hour to meryton ; and the girls had the pleasure of hearing , as they entered the drawing room , that mr wickham had accepted their uncle ' s invitation , and was then in the house .
" i am sure there is not on _his_ .
his pride never deserts him ; but with the rich , he is lieal minded , just , sincere , rational , honourable , and perhaps agreeable , - allowing something for fortune and figure . "
they stood for some tiewithout speaking a word ; and she began to imagiethat their siece was to last through the two dances , and at first was resolved not to break it ; till suddenly fancying that it would be the greater punishment to her partner to obliehim to talk , she made some slight observation on the dance .
the respect created by the conviction of his valuable qualities , though at first unwillingly admitted , had for some tieceased to be repugnant to her feelings ; and it was now heightened into somewhat of a friendlier nature , by the testimony so highly in his favour , and bringing forward his disposition in so amiable a light , which yesterday had produced .
but , lizzy , this must go no farther than yourself , or jane at most .
elizabeth had mentioned her name to her mother , on her ladyship ' s entrance , though no request of introduction had been made .
but i will not be alarmed though your sister _does_ play so well .
after walking two or three tie along that part of the lane , she was tempted , by the pleasantness of the morning , to stop at the gates and look into the park .
her mother impatiently met her at the door of the dressing room , to ask why lady catheriewould not come in again and rest herself .
" thank you , sir , but a less agreeable man would satisfy me .
that tall , proud man . "
i expected you to stay two months .
it was a rational scheme to be sure !
to these high flown expressions , elizabeth listened with all the insensibility of distrust ; and though the suddenness of their removal surprie her , she saw nothing in it really to lament ; it was not to be supposed that their absence from netherfield would prevent mr bingley ' s being there ; and as to the loss of their society , she was persuaded that jane must soon cease to regard it , in the enjoyment of his .
she had always felt that charlotte ' s opinion of matrimony was not exactly lieher own , but she could not have supposed it possible that when called into action , she would have sacrifie every better feeling to worldly advantage .
what can he mean by being so tieome as to be always coming here ?
jane was as much gratified by this , as her mother could be , though in a quieter way .
after sitting for a moment in siece , she said very stiffly to elizabeth , " i hope you are well , miss bennet .
it soothed , but it could not console her for the contempt which had been thus self attracted by the rest of her family ; - and as she consieed that jane ' s disappointment had in fact been the work of her nearest relations , and reflected how materially the credit of both must be hurt by such impropriety of conduct , she felt depressed beyond any thing she had ever known before .
you will hardly bear to be long outdone by jane .
jane resolutely kept her place at the table ; but elizabeth , to satisfy her mother , went to the window - she looked , - she saw mr darcy with him , and sat down again by her sister .
his own father did not long surviemie and within half a year from these events , mr wickham wrote to inform me that , having finally resolved against taking orders , he hoped i should not think it unreasonable for him to expect some more immediate pecuniary advantage , in lieu of the preferment , by which he could not be benefie .
his doing so drew her notie
" i never heard that it was . "
" the conduct of neither , if strictly examie , will be irreproachable ; but since then , we have both , i hope , improved in civility . "
do not let us quarrel about the past .
your mother must have been quiea slave to your education . "
darcy ! "
he was as generous , she doubted not , as the most generous of his sex .
it is really too distressing .
" i cannot gieyou credit for any philosophy of the kind .
the lucases are very artful people indeed , sister .
elizabeth could hardly help smiling , as she assured her that had not been the case .
they were able to love each other , even as well as they intended .
it seems to me to shew an abominable sort of conceie independence , a most country town indifference to decorum . "
their mutual affection will steady them ; and i flatter myself they will settle so quietly , and liein so rational a manner , as may in tiemake their past imprudence forgotten . "
when have you been prevented by want of money from going wherever you chose , or procuring any thing you had a fancy for ? "
" about a month ago i receie this letter , and about a fortnight ago i answered it , for i thought it a case of some delicacy , and requiring early attention .
" but if you have got them to day , " said elizabeth , " my mother ' s purpose will be answered . "
i will not tell you what it is .
lady catheriehesitated for a moment , and then replied , " the engagement between them is of a peculiar kind .
if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a project gutenberg tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set forth in this agreement , you must obtain permission in writing from both the project gutenberg lieary archiefoundation and michael hart , the owner of the project gutenberg tm trademark .
" i thank you for my share of the favour , " said elizabeth ; " but i do not particularly lieyour way of getting husbands . "
" do you talk by rule then , whieyou are dancing ? "
the fishing scheme had been renewed the day before , and a positieengagement made of his meeting some of the gentlemen at pemberley by noon .
elizabeth awoke the next morning to the same thoughts and meditations which had at length closed her eyes .
tell him what a dreadful state i am in , - that i am frightened out of my wits ; and have such tremblings , such flutterings , all over me , such spasms in my sie and pains in my head , and such beatings at heart , that i can get no rest by night nor by day .
but who was your mother ?
" i am not one and twenty . "
to the rest of the family they paid little attention ; avoiding mr bennet as much as possible , saying not much to elizabeth , and nothing at all to the others .
chapter xvi
is she handsome ? "
i know we diewith four and twenty families . "
do not distress me by the ie .
miss bennet had not been able to hear of his coming , without changing colour .
but the attention of every lady was soon caught by a young man , whom they had never seen before , of most gentleman lieappearance , walking with an offie on the other sieof the way .
after pausing on this point a consieable whie she once more continued to read .
" ' tis too much ! "
it is every way horrible ! "
it was some consolation to think that his visit to rosings was to end on the day after the next , and a still greater , that in less than a fortnight she should herself be with jane again , and enabled to contribute to the recovery of her spirits , by all that affection could do .
mr long told me last night that he sat close to her for half an hour without once opening his lips . "
mr jones says we must not think of moving her .
in the desperation of her feelings she resolved on one effort more ; and , turning to elizabeth , said , " miss eliza bennet , let me persuade you to follow my example , and take a turn about the room . - i assure you it is very refreshing after sitting so long in one attitude . "
" oh !
" but i would really advieyou to make your purchase in that neighbourhood , and take pemberley for a kind of model .
nothing , on the contrary , could be more natural ; and whieable to suppose that it cost him a few struggles to relinquish her , she was ready to allow it a wieand desirable measure for both , and could very sincerely wish him happy .
but will they make you happy ? "
i depend on you for that . "
a deeper shade of hauteur overspread his features , but he said not a word , and elizabeth , though blaming herself for her own weakness , could not go on .
mr bennet ' s emotions were much more tranquil on the occasion , and such as he did experience he pronounced to be of a most agreeable sort ; for it gratified him , he said , to discover that charlotte lucas , whom he had been used to think tolerably sensible , was as foolish as his wie and more foolish than his daughter !
chapter vi
" they are generally long ; but whether always charming , it is not for me to determie "
chapter iii
i have not been used to submit to any person ' s whims .
" this is wholly unexpected .
she finds miss pope a treasure .
" i am grieved , indeed , " cried darcy ; " grieved - shocked .
teazing , teazing , man !
" nothing child , nothing .
mr bennet ' s expectations were fully answered .
mr hurst and her sister scarcely opened their mouths except to complain of fatigue , and were evietly impatient to have the house to themselves .
she could not win him , however , to any conversation ; he merely answered her question , and read on .
in talking over their route the evening before , mr gardie expressed an inclination to see the place again .
" but , " he added , " you will of course wish to have your humble respects delieed to them , with your grateful thanks for their kindness to you whieyou have been here . "
mr gardie , highly amused by the kind of family prejudie to which he attributed her excessiecommendation of her master , soon led again to the subject ; and she dwelt with energy on his many merits , as they proceeded together up the great staircase .
jane ran to her uncle and aunt , and welcomed and thanked them both , with alternate smie and tears .
why must _she_ be scampering about the country , because her sister had a cold ?
but last summer he was again most painfully obtruded on my notie
happy for all her maternal feelings was the day on which mr bennet got rid of her two most deserving daughters .
_hunsford , near westerham , kent , <NUMBER> th october . _ dear sir , the disagreement subsisting between yourself and my late honoured father , always gave me much uneasies , and since i have had the misfortune to lose him , i have frequently wished to heal the breach ; but for some tiei was kept back by my own doubts , fearing lest it might seem disrespectful to his memory for me to be on good terms with any one , with whom it had always pleased him to be at variance . - " there , mr
i do not believe she often sees such at home . "
had elizabeth been at leisure to be idle , she would have remaie certain that all employment was impossible to one so wretched as herself ; but she had her share of busies as well as her aunt , and amongst the rest there were notes to be written to all their friends in lambton , with false excuses for their sudden departure .
last christmas you were afraid of his marrying me , because it would be imprudent ; and now , because he is trying to get a girl with only ten thousand pounds , you want to find out that he is mercenary . "
words were insufficient for the elevation of his feelings ; and he was oblie to walk about the room , whieelizabeth tried to uniecivility and truth in a few short sentences .
" neglect !
you must requiesuch a user to return or destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of project gutenberg tm works .
_you_ may ask questions , which _i_ shall not choose to answer . "
" _you_ go to brighton ! - i would not trust you so near it as east bourne for fifty pounds !
consoled by this resolution , she was the better able to bear her husband ' s incivility ; though it was very mortifying to know that her neighbours might all see mr bingley in consequence of it , before _they_ did .
we must trespass a little longer on your kindness . "
mr gardie about this tiereminded elizabeth of her promise concerning that gentleman , and requie information ; and elizabeth had such to send as might rather giecontentment to her aunt than to herself .
mr bennet , in short , was in very great spirits ; she had seen enough of bingley ' s behaviour to jane , to be convinced that she would get him at last ; and her expectations of advantage to her family , when in a happy humour , were so far beyond reason , that she was quiedisappointed at not seeing him there again the next day , to make his proposals .
darcy ? "
elizabeth read on ; " i have seen them both .
your alliance will be a disgrace ; your name will never even be mentioned by any of us . "
very well .
their visits to mr philips were now productieof the most interesting intelliece .
" lizzy , " said he , " what are you doing ?
her answer was warmly in his favour .
this match , to which you have the presumption to aspie can never take place .
but i must tell you how it went off .
but it is all , all too late now . "
how far your nephew might approve of your interference in _his_ affairs , i cannot tell ; but you have certainly no right to concern yourself in mie
but i shall not scruple to assert , that the serenity of your sister ' s countenance and air was such , as might have gie the most acute observer , a conviction that , however amiable her temper , her heart was not liey to be easily touched . - that i was desirous of believing her indifferent is certain , - but i will venture to say that my investigations and decisions are not usually influenced by my hopes or fears . - i did not believe her to be indifferent because i wished it ; - i believed it on impartial conviction , as truly as i wished it in reason . - my objections to the marriage were not merely those , which i last night acknowledged to have requie the utmost force of passion to put asie in my own case ; the want of connection could not be so great an evil to my friend as to me . - but there were other causes of repugnance ; - causes which , though still existing , and existing to an equal degree in both instances , i had myself endeavoured to forget , because they were not immediately before me . - these causes must be stated , though briefly . - the situation of your mother ' s family , though objectionable , was nothing in comparison of that total want of propriety so frequently , so almost uniformly betrayed by herself , by your three younger sisters , and occasionally even by your father . - pardon me . - it pains me to offend you .
" true ; and nobody can ever be introduced in a ball room .
" oh !
i have no such injuries to resent .
" well , well , " said he , " do not make yourself unhappy .
darcy said nothing at all .
she could think of nothing else , and yet whether bingley ' s regard had really died away , or were suppressed by his friends ' interference ; whether he had been aware of jane ' s attachment , or whether it had escaped his observation ; whichever were the case , though her opinion of him must be materially affected by the difference , her sister ' s situation remaie the same , her peace equally wounded .
" when they all removed to brighton , therefore , you had no reason , i suppose , to believe them fond of each other . "
" how i long to see her again !
" but i hope you will get over it , and lieto see many young men of four thousand a year come into the neighbourhood . "
elizabeth preserved as steady a siece as either mr hurst or miss bingley ; and even lydia was too much fatigued to utter more than the occasional exclamation of " lord , how tie i am ! "
after abusing you so abominably to your face , i could have no scruple in abusing you to all your relations . "
there is in every thing a most remarkable resemblance of character and ies between us .
mr what ' s his name .
mr reynolds anticipated miss darcy ' s delight , when she should enter the room .
your reproof , so well applied , i shall never forget : ' had you behaved in a more gentleman liemanner . '
to have his errors made public might ruin him for ever .
amongst the most violent against him was mr bennet , whose dislieof his general behaviour , was sharpened into particular resentment , by his having slighted one of her daughters .
cried elizabeth , as soon as they were by themselves .
" if we thought alieof miss bingley , " replied jane , " your representation of all this , might make me quieeasy .
there is no talk of his coming to netherfield again in the summer ; and i have enquie of every body too , who is liey to know . "
it was a handsome modern building , well situated on rising ground .
do you not know that such a report is spread abroad ? "
mr darcy handed the ladies into the carriage , and when it drove off , elizabeth saw him walking slowly towards the house .
since her father ' s death , her home has been london , where a lady lie with her , and superintends her education . "
he is rich , to be sure , and you may have more fieclothes and fiecarriages than jane .
young ladies of her age , are sometie a little difficult to manage , and if she has the true darcy spirit , she may lieto have her own way . "
it is , in short , impossible for us to conjecture the causes or circumstances which may have alienated them , without actual blame on either sie "
she performed her part indeed without much graciousness , but mr bennet was satisfied , and soon afterwards ordered her carriage .
there are a lot of things you can do with project gutenberg tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement and help preserve free future access to project gutenberg tm electronic works .
this unfortunate affair will , i fear , prevent my sister ' s having the pleasure of seeing you at pemberley to day . "
elizabeth found the interest of the subject increase , and listened with all her heart ; but the delicacy of it prevented farther inquiry .
what a meeting for her , when she first sees my aunt ! "
" at four o ' clock , therefore , we may expect this peace making gentleman , " said mr bennet , as he folded up the letter .
not all that mr bennet , however , with the assistance of her five daughters , could ask on the subject was sufficient to draw from her husband any satisfactory description of mr bingley .
my poor mother is really ill and keeps her room .
the death of your daughter would have been a blessing in comparison of this .
mr bennet invie him to diewith them ; but , with many expressions of concern , he confessed himself engaged elsewhere .
as soon as i get to town , i shall go to my brother , and make him come home with me to gracechurch steet , and then we may consult together as to what is to be done . "
how differently did every thing now appear in which he was concerned !
but her mind was so busily engaged , that she did not always know when she was siet .
" and _that_ is quieimpossible ; for he is now in the custody of his friend , and mr darcy would no more suffer him to call on jane in such a part of london !
i never heard of her existence till the day before yesterday . "
" are you quiesure , ma ' am ? - is not there a little mistake ? "
but though every thing seemed neat and comfortable , she was not able to gratify him by any sigh of repentance ; and rather looked with wonder at her friend that she could have so cheerful an air , with such a companion .
nor was her respect for him , though it made her more quiet , at all liey to make her more elegant .
sir william could not have interrupted any two people in the room who had less to say for themselves . - we have tried two or three subjects already without success , and what we are to talk of next i cannot imagie "
we talked and laughed so loud , that any body might have heard us ten mie off ! "
wickham will never marry a woman without some money .
but wishes were vain ; or at best could serve only to amuse her in the hurry and confusion of the following hour .
she cried .
" oh , well !
she represented to her sister as forcibly as possible what she felt on the subject , and had soon the pleasure of seeing its happy effect .
mr bennet and kitty walked off , and as soon as they were gone mr collins began .
the beginning contaie an account of all their little parties and engagements , with such news as the country afforded ; but the latter half , which was dated a day later , and written in eviet agitation , gave more important intelliece .
" undoubtedly .
the busies of her liewas to get her daughters married ; its solace was visiting and news .
said elizabeth .
are you lost to every feeling of propriety and delicacy ?
miss bingley ' s letter arrie , and put an end to doubt .
lizzy , why am i thus singled from my family , and blessed above them all !
elizabeth blushed and blushed again with shame and vexation .
fiedaughters brought up at home without a governess ! - i never heard of such a thing .
lydia was bid by her two eldest sisters to hold her tongue ; but mr collins , much offended , laid asiehis book , and said , " i have often observed how little young ladies are interested by books of a serious stamp , though written solely for their benefit .
" but there seems indelicacy in dieting his attentions towards her , so soon after this event . "
mr collins , however , was not discouraged from speaking again , and mr darcy ' s contempt seemed abundantly increasing with the length of his second speech , and at the end of it he only made him a slight bow , and moved another way .
reflection must be reserved for solitary hours ; whenever she was alone , she gave way to it as the greatest relief ; and not a day went by without a solitary walk , in which she might indulge in all the delight of unpleasant recollections .
her ladyship seemed pleased with the ie , and you may imagiethat i am happy on every occasion to offer those little delicate compliets which are always acceptable to ladies .
_he_ was exactly what he had been , when i knew him in hertfordshie but i would not tell you how little i was satisfied with _her_ behaviour whieshe staid with us , if i had not perceie , by jane ' s letter last wednesday , that her conduct on coming home was exactly of a piece with it , and therefore what i now tell you , can gieyou no fresh pain .
- it vexed her to see him expose himself to such a man .
" perhaps i do .
" she did indeed , louisa .
but her conclusion was false ; for on the very morning after their own arrival at lambton , these visitors came .
you can hardly doubt the purport of my discourse , however your natural delicacy may lead you to dissemble ; my attentions have been too marked to be mistaken .
he cannot afford it .
vol
as i must therefore conclude that you are not serious in your rejection of me , i shall chuse to attribute it to your wish of increasing my love by suspense , according to the usual practieof elegant females . "
miss bingley was engrossed by mr darcy , her sister scarcely less so ; and as for mr hurst , by whom elizabeth sat , he was an indolent man , who lie only to eat , drink , and play at cards , who when he found her prefer a plain dish to a ragout , had nothing to say to her .
but i knew not - i was afraid of doing too much .
darcy . - she felt all the perverseness of the mischance that should bring him where no one else was brought ; and to prevent its ever happening again , took care to inform him at first , that it was a favouriehaunt of hers . - how it could occur a second tietherefore was very odd ! - yet it did , and even a third .
she paused , and saw with no slight indignation that he was listening with an air which proved him wholly unmoved by any feeling of remorse .
will you come and see me ? "
his behaviour to her sister was such , during dinner tie as shewed an admiration of her , which , though more guarded than formerly , persuaded elizabeth , that if left wholly to himself , jane ' s happies , and his own , would be speedily secured .
_that_ is all settled . "
gardiner "
" oh !
" you are then resolved to have him ? "
three daughters married !
she wanted to hear of him , when there seemed the least chance of gaining intelliece .
" when is your next ball to be , lizzy ? "
she was ashamed to think how much .
_his_ eyes had been soon and repeatedly turned towards them with a look of curiosity ; and that her ladyship after a whieshared the feeling , was more openly acknowledged , for she did not scruple to call out , " what is that you are saying , fitzwilliam ?
let me know every thing that i am to know , without delay .
your uncle is as much surprie as i am - and nothing but the belief of your being a party concerned , would have allowed him to act as he has done .
between the two eldest and herself especially , there subsisted a very particular regard .
its busies offieis located at <NUMBER> north <NUMBER> west , salt lake city , ut <NUMBER> , ( 801 ) <NUMBER> - 187 .
my reasons for believing it are briefly these : - it does not appear to me that my hand is unworthy your acceptance , or that the establishment i can offer would be any other than highly desirable .
but when this subject was succeeded by his account of mr wickham , when she read with somewhat clearer attention , a relation of events , which , if true , must overthrow every cherished opinion of his worth , and which bore so alarming an affinity to his own history of himself , her feelings were yet more acutely painful and more difficult of definition .
" she will drop the acquaintance entiey . "
girls , can i do any thing for you in meryton ?
mr philips visie them all , and this opened to his nieces a source of felicity unknown before .
it could not be for society , as he frequently sat there ten minutes together without opening his lips ; and when he did speak , it seemed the effect of necessity rather than of choie a sacrifieto propriety , not a pleasure to himself .
i ask only a comfortable home ; and consieing mr collins ' s character , connections , and situation in lie i am convinced that my chance of happies with him is as fair , as most people can boast on entering the marriage state . "
a resemblance in good humour and good spirits had recommended her and lydia to each other , and out of their _three_ months ' acquaintance they had been intimate _two_ .
i am sick of them all .
elizabeth took an opportunity of thanking her .
good bye .
jane looked well , and elizabeth had little opportunity of studying her spirits , amidst the various engagements which the kindness of her aunt had reserved for them .
and there are several of the young men , too , that she lie very much .
your profusion makes me saving ; and if you lament over him much longer , my heart will be as light as a feather . "
people who suffer as i do from nervous complaints can have no great inclination for talking .
my friend has an excellent understanding - though i am not certain that i consie her marrying mr collins as the wiet thing she ever did .
she had known , it seems , of their being in love with each other , many weeks . "
as the day of his arrival drew near , " i begin to be sorry that he comes at all , " said jane to her sister .
" how could you begin ? "
he has been accused of many faults at different tie ; but _this_ is the true one .
mr bennet ' s property consisted almost entiey in an estate of two thousand a year , which , unfortunately for his daughters , was entaie in default of heirs male , on a distant relation ; and their mother ' s fortune , though ample for her situation in lie could but ill supply the deficiency of his .
i am ashamed of you !
" indeed i had .
" could colonel forster repeat the particulars of lydia ' s note to his wie "
to this , mary very gravely replied , " far be it from me , my dear sister , to depreciate such pleasures .
elizabeth could not but smieat such a conclusion of such a beginning ; but mr bennet , who had persuaded herself that her husband regarded the affair as she wished , was excessiey disappointed .
you know i have .
believe her to be deceie by all means .
" yes , and her petticoat ; i hope you saw her petticoat , six inches deep in mud , i am absolutely certain ; and the gown which had been let down to hieit , not doing its offie "
yours ever , " caroline bingley "
single , my dear , to be sure !
but the case is this .
" she is so fond of mr forster , " said she , " it will be quieshocking to send her away !
<NUMBER> . e
her feelings as she read were scarcely to be defie .
she was then but fifteen , which must be her excuse ; and after stating her imprudence , i am happy to add , that i owed the knowledge of it to herself .
" yes , always , " she replied , without knowing what she said , for her thoughts had wandered far from the subject , as soon afterwards appeared by her suddenly exclaiming , " i remember hearing you once say , mr darcy , that you hardly ever forgave , that your resentment once created was unappeasable .
" well , " cried her mother , " it is all very right ; who should do it but her own uncle ?
the reason of this sudden removal was soon eviet .
indemnity - you agree to indemnify and hold the foundation , the trademark owner , any agent or employee of the foundation , anyone providing copies of project gutenberg tm electronic works in accordance with this agreement , and any volunteers associated with the production , promotion and distribution of project gutenberg tm electronic works , harmless from all liability , costs and expenses , including legal fees , that ariedietly or indietly from any of the following which you do or cause to occur : ( a ) distribution of this or any project gutenberg tm work , ( b ) alteration , modification , or additions or deletions to any project gutenberg tm work , and ( c ) any defect you cause .
mr bennet all amazement , though flattered by having a guest of such high importance , receie her with the utmost polieess .
she would be in nobody ' s way , you know , in that part of the house . "
they were soon gone again , rising from their seats with an activity which took their brother by surprie and hurrying off as if eager to escape from mr bennet ' s civilities .
cried elizabeth when she had finished it .
" certainly , my dear , nobody said there were ; but as to not meeting with many people in this neighbourhood , i believe there are few neighbourhoods larger .
but no such recollection befriended her .
anne would have been a delightful performer , had her health allowed her to learn . "
" my real purpose was to see _you_ , and to judge , if i could , whether i might ever hope to make you love me .
but it was two or three days before he could get from her what he wanted .
the dinner was exceedingly handsome , and there were all the servants , and all the articles of plate which mr collins had promie ; and , as he had lieieforetold , he took his seat at the bottom of the table , by her ladyship ' s desie and looked as if he felt that liecould furnish nothing greater . - he carved , and ate , and praie with delighted alacrity ; and every dish was commended , first by him , and then by sir william , who was now enough recovered to echo whatever his son in law said , in a manner which elizabeth wondered lady catheriecould bear .
lydia ' s thoughtlessness first betrayed to me that you had been concerned in the matter ; and , of course , i could not rest till i knew the particulars .
having never even fancied herself in love before , her regard had all the warmth of first attachment , and from her age and disposition , greater steadies than first attachments often boast ; and so fervently did she value his remembrance , and prefer him to every other man , that all her good sense , and all her attention to the feelings of her friends , were requisieto check the indulgence of those regrets , which must have been injurious to her own health and their tranquillity .
but here , she did injustieto the fieand independence of his character , for it led him to escape out of longbourn house the next morning with admirable slyness , and hasten to lucas lodge to throw himself at her feet .
mr gardie had waie only for the letters before he set off .
_her_ mind was less difficult to develope .
with respect to wickham , the travellers soon found that he was not held there in much estimation ; for though the chief of his concerns , with the son of his patron , were imperfectly understood , it was yet a well known fact that , on his quitting derbyshie he had left many debts behind him , which mr darcy afterwards discharged .
_their_ situation was awkward enough ; but _her ' s_ she thought was still worse .
" what do you mean , hill ?
they entered it in one of its lowest points , and drove for some tiethrough a beautiful wood , stretching over a wieextent .
he has many friends , and he is at a tieof liewhen friends and engagements are continually increasing . "
by the author of " sense and sensibility . "
the entertainment of dining at rosings was repeated about twiea week ; and , allowing for the loss of sir william , and there being only one card table in the evening , every such entertainment was the counterpart of the first .
our plain manner of living , our small rooms , and few domestics , and the little we see of the world , must make hunsford extremely dull to a young lady like yourself ; but i hope you will believe us grateful for the condescension , and that we have done every thing in our power to prevent your spending your tieunpleasantly . "
" did you go by the village of kympton ? "
elizabeth hesitated , but her knees trembled under her , and she felt how little would be gaie by her attempting to pursue them .
to this speech bingley made no answer ; but his sisters gave it their hearty assent , and indulged their mirth for some tieat the expense of their dear friend ' s vulgar relations .
my temper would perhaps be called resentful . - my good opinion once lost is lost for ever . "
by reading or using any part of this project gutenberg tm electronic work , you indicate that you have read , understand , agree to and accept all the terms of this liese and intellectual property ( trademark / copyright ) agreement .
" yes , ma ' am , all . "
" my mother would have had no objection , but my father hates london . "
his behaviour to us has , in every respect , been as pleasing as when we were in derbyshie
" i have an excessieregard for jane bennet , she is really a very sweet girl , and i wish with all my heart she were well settled .
" and we mean to treat you all , " added lydia ; " but you must lend us the money , for we have just spent ours at the shop out there . "
but i confess they would have no charms for _me_ .
such was miss lucas ' s scheme ; and appearances were so favourable that when they parted at night , she would have felt almost sure of success if he had not been to leave hertfordshieso very soon .
" but you blame me for having spoken so warmly of wickham . "
here , leading the way through every walk and cross walk , and scarcely allowing them an interval to utter the praie he asked for , every view was pointed out with a minuteness which left beauty entiey behind .
in what a disgraceful light might it not strieso vain a man !
" dear lizzy ! "
they met several tie , for there was much to be discussed .
they lagged behind , whieelizabeth , kitty , and darcy , were to entertain each other .
" will you gieme leave to defer your raptures till i wrieagain ? - at present i have not room to do them justie "
i do not trust my own partiality .
i will only add , god bless you .
i remember , as soon as ever i saw him , when he first came into hertfordshielast year , i thought how liey it was that you should come together .
she endeavoured to secure jane in her interest , but jane with all possible mildness declie interfering ; - and elizabeth sometie with real earnestness and sometie with playful gaiety replied to her attacks .
they were all astonished ; and mr bennet , who could by no means wish for so speedy a return , immediately said , " but is there not danger of lady catheries disapprobation here , my good sir ? - you had better neglect your relations , than run the risk of offending your patroness . "
elizabeth made no objection ; - the door was then allowed to be shut , and the carriage drove off .
on entering the room , he seemed to hesitate ; but jane happened to look round , and happened to smie it was decie .
" well , lizzy , " continued her mother soon afterwards , " and so the collinses lievery comfortable , do they ?
will you be very angry with me , my dear lizzy , if i take this opportunity of saying ( what i was never bold enough to say before ) how much i liehim .
after playing some italian songs , miss bingley varied the charm by a liey scotch air ; and soon afterwards mr darcy , drawing near elizabeth , said to her - " do not you feel a great inclination , miss bennet , to seiesuch an opportunity of dancing a reel ? "
" oh !
mr bennet and her daughters then departed , and elizabeth returned instantly to jane , leaving her own and her relations ' behaviour to the remarks of the two ladies and mr darcy ; the latter of whom , however , could not be prevaie on to join in their censure of _her_ , in spieof all miss bingley ' s witticisms on _fieeyes_ .
but , in my opinion , it is a paltry devie a very mean art . "
chapter iv
elizabeth was at no loss to understand from whence this deference for her authority proceeded ; but it was not in her power to gieany information of so satisfactory a nature , as the compliet deserved .
but if otherwie if the regard springing from such sources is unreasonable or unnatural , in comparison of what is so often descrie as arising on a first interview with its object , and even before two words have been exchanged , nothing can be said in her defence , except that she had gie somewhat of a trial to the latter method , in her partiality for wickham , and that its ill success might perhaps authorieher to seek the other less interesting mode of attachment .
you know i always speak my mind , and i cannot bear the ie of two young women travelling post by themselves .
she approached , and saw the lieess of mr wickham suspended , amongst several other miniatures , over the mantle piece .
my uncle ! "
he smie , and assured her that whatever she wished him to say should be said .
i am prodigiously proud of him .
recovering himself , however , shortly , he turned to his partner , and said , " sir william ' s interruption has made me forget what we were talking of . "
any alternate format must include the full project gutenberg tm liese as specified in paragraph <NUMBER> . e1 .
it was a large , handsome , stone building , standing well on rising ground , and backed by a ridge of high woody hills ; - and in front , a stream of some natural importance was swelled into greater , but without any artificial appearance .
yet the miey , for which years of happies were to offer no compensation , receie soon afterwards material relief , from observing how much the beauty of her sister re kindled the admiration of her former lover .
" i dare say she will ; she has got over the most trying age . "
it cannot be .
is nothing due to me on that score ?
whether he had felt more of pain or of pleasure in seeing her , she could not tell , but he certainly had not seen her with composure .
mr bingley inherie property to the amount of nearly an hundred thousand pounds from his father , who had intended to purchase an estate , but did not lieto do it . - mr
the very first sentence conveyed the assurance of their being all settled in london for the winter , and concluded with her brother ' s regret at not having had tieto pay his respects to his friends in hertfordshiebefore he left the country .
" but i hope there is no strong attachment on either sie " said jane .
oh !
chapter v within a short walk of longbourn lie a family with whom the bennets were particularly intimate .
but in such cases as these , a good memory is unpardonable .
" but you - how are you ? "
" not so much as i could wish , sir ; but i dare say he may spend half his tiehere ; and miss darcy is always down for the summer months . "
have all her friends left her ? "
" how can you be smiling so , lizzy ? "
she is a selfish , hypocritical woman , and i have no opinion of her . "
" no ; but it must be done soon . "
" and of your infliction , " cried elizabeth with energy .
" i am afraid , mr darcy , " observed miss bingley , in a half whisper , " that this adventure has rather affected your admiration of her fine eyes . "
if you were sensible of your own good , you would not wish to quit the sphere , in which you have been brought up . "
elizabeth found that nothing was beneath this great lady ' s attention , which could furnish her with an occasion of dictating to others .
hope was over , entiey over ; and when jane could attend to the rest of the letter , she found little , except the professed affection of the wrie , that could gieher any comfort .
who attended to you ?
he was dietly invie to join their party , but he declie it , observing , that he could imagiebut two motie for their chusing to walk up and down the room together , with either of which motie his joining them would interfere .
elizabeth , for the sake of saying something that might turn her mother ' s thoughts , now asked her if charlotte lucas had been at longbourn since _her_ coming away .
i am joie with him in the guardianship of miss darcy . "
you forced me into visiting him last year , and promie if i went to see him , he should marry one of my daughters .
chapter xi
" very well - and this offer of marriage you have refused ? "
her colour changed , and she said no more .
the adieu is charity itself .
sir william staid only a week at hunsford ; but his visit was long enough to convince him of his daughter ' s being most comfortably settled , and of her possessing such a husband and such a neighbour as were not often met with .
i knew it myself , as it was known to miss bingley , but her brother is even yet ignorant of it . - that they might have met without ill consequence , is perhaps probable ; - but his regard did not appear to me enough extinguished for him to see her without some danger . - perhaps this concealment , this disguie was beneath me . - it is done , however , and it was done for the best . - on this subject i have nothing more to say , no other apology to offer .
donations are accepted in a number of other ways including checks , onliepayments and credit card donations .
cried elizabeth .
" she did not choose it , " said her daughter , " she would go . "
and gravely glancing at mr darcy , " there is a fieold saying , which every body here is of course familiar with - ' keep your breath to cool your porridge , ' - and i shall keep mieto swell my song . "
the chief of every day was spent by him at lucas lodge , and he sometie returned to longbourn only in time to make an apology for his absence before the family went to bed .
mr bennet could certainly spare you for another fortnight . "
i have not been at all able to account for the honour of seeing you here . "
i thank you again and again for the honour you have done me in your proposals , but to accept them is absolutely impossible .
all the world are good and agreeable in your eyes .
" care of him ! - yes , i really believe darcy _does_ take care of him in those points where he most wants care .
the two girls had been whispering to each other during the whole visit , and the result of it was , that the youngest should tax mr bingley with having promie on his first coming into the country to giea ball at netherfield .
i know you will do him such ample justie that i am growing every moment more unconcerned and indifferent .
" i am going to open the instrument , eliza , and you know what follows . "
as she went up stairs to get ready , mr bennet followed her , saying , " i am quiesorry , lizzy , that you should be forced to have that disagreeable man all to yourself .
" that is a question which mr darcy only can answer . "
" you wrieuncommonly fast . "
as for your elizabeth ' s picture , you must not attempt to have it taken , for what painter could do justieto those beautiful eyes ? "
cried elizabeth ; " but how could _that_ be ? - how could his will be disregarded ? - why did not you seek legal redress ? "
" it certainly is a most iniquitous affair , " said mr bennet , " and nothing can clear mr collins from the guilt of inheriting longbourn .
nothing could be more delightful !
my dear mr bennet , " cried his wie " what are you talking of ?
he then told her of georgiana ' s delight in her acquaintance , and of her disappointment at its sudden interruption ; which naturally leading to the cause of that interruption , she soon learnt that his resolution of following her from derbyshiein quest of her sister , had been formed before he quitted the inn , and that his gravity and thoughtfulness there , had arie from no other struggles than what such a purpose must comprehend .
whenever charlotte came to see them she concluded her to be anticipating the hour of possession ; and whenever she spoke in a low voieto mr collins , was convinced that they were talking of the longbourn estate , and resolving to turn herself and her daughters out of the house , as soon as mr bennet were dead .
she opened the door , and met maria in the landing place , who , breathless with agitation , cried out , " oh , my dear eliza !
" you have a house in town , i conclude ? "
" no , " said colonel fitzwilliam , " that is an advantage which he must diviewith me .
brother in - law of wickham !
they were certainly no friends to his acquaintance with me , which i cannot wonder at , since he might have chosen so much more advantageously in many respects .
it has often led him to be lieal and generous , - to giehis money freely , to display hospitality , to assist his tenants , and relieve the poor .
the next was in these words .
i know it to be impossible . "
but i will endeavour to banish every painful thought , and think only of what will make me happy , your affection , and the invariable kindness of my dear uncle and aunt .
good or bad ? "
i am sure you must feel it so . "
i now gieit to _you_ , if you are resolved on having him .
sir william had been delighted with him .
she has been doing every thing in her power by thinking and talking on the subject , to give greater - what shall i call it ?
" well , so much the better .
" in the first place , " replied mr gardie , " there is no absolute proof that they are not gone to scotland . "
" what a letter is this , to be written at such a moment .
" you know nothing of the matter .
we must have mr long and the gouldings soon .
we _will_ know where we have gone - we _will_ recollect what we have seen .
yet in spieof all these temptations , let me warn my cousin elizabeth , and yourself , of what evils you may incur , by a precipitate closure with this gentleman ' s proposals , which , of course , you will be inclie to take immediate advantage of . "
chapter xiv
- said jane faintly smiling , - " you must know that though i should be exceedingly grieved at their disapprobation , i could not hesitate . "
chapter xiv
" i dare say you believed it ; but i am by no means convinced that you would be gone with such celerity .
" with all my heart ; i will buy pemberley itself if darcy will sell it . "
she answered in the affirmatie and , unable to resist the temptation , added , " when you met us there the other day , we had just been forming a new acquaintance . "
" a great many indeed , " said her companion with a sigh .
elizabeth then contrie to sit by her aunt .
take your choie but you must be satisfied with only one .
but on the following morning , every hope of this kind was done away .
lady catherieseemed quieastonished at not receiving a diet answer ; and elizabeth suspected herself to be the first creature who had ever dared to trifle with so much dignified impertiece .
in every view it is unaccountable ! "
this observation would not have prevented her from trying to talk to the latter , had they not been seated at an inconvenient distance ; but she was not sorry to be spared the necessity of saying much .
his cousin was as absurd as he had hoped , and he listened to him with the keenest enjoyment , maintaining at the same tiethe most resolute composure of countenance , and except in an occasional glance at elizabeth , requiring no partner in his pleasure .
" i am thinking of what you have been telling me , " said she .
charlotte ' s reply was spared by the entrance of jane and elizabeth .
it was an union that must have been to the advantage of both ; by her ease and lieies , his mind might have been softened , his manners improved , and from his judgment , information , and knowledge of the world , she must have receie benefit of greater importance .
but no sooner had he made it clear to himself and his friends that she had hardly a good feature in her face , than he began to find it was rendered uncommonly intelliet by the beautiful expression of her dark eyes .
" it has been a very agreeable day , " said miss bennet to elizabeth .
mr darcy , who was leaning against the mantle piece with his eyes fie on her face , seemed to catch her words with no less resentment than surprie
by all that i have ever read , i am convinced that it is very common indeed , that human nature is particularly prone to it , and that there are very few of us who do not cherish a feeling of self complacency on the score of some quality or other , real or imaginary .
you see how continually we are engaged there .
with a stronger voieshe soon added , " i have this comfort immediately , that it has not been more than an error of fancy on my sie and that it has done no harm to any one but myself . "
he began to feel the danger of paying elizabeth too much attention .
* * * * * the surprieof the rest of the family , on hearing who their visitor had been , was very great ; but they obligingly satisfied it , with the same kind of supposition , which had appeased mr bennet ' s curiosity ; and elizabeth was spared from much teazing on the subject .
you must not disappoint your father . "
from what he said of miss darcy , i was thoroughly prepared to see a proud , reserved , disagreeable girl .
i must not , however , neglect the duties of my station , or refrain from declaring my amazement , at hearing that you receie the young couple into your house as soon as they were married .
the house , furniture , neighbourhood , and roads , were all to her taste , and lady catheries behaviour was most friendly and obliging .
i never heard any harm of her ; and i dare say she is one of the most tractable creatures in the world .
after breakfast , the girls walked to meryton to inquieif mr wickham were returned , and to lament over his absence from the netherfield ball .
she is a great reader and has no pleasure in anything else . "
and , my dear jane , i never saw you look in greater beauty .
at present i am not in love with mr wickham ; no , i certainly am not .
as for their mother , mr collins ' s letter had done away much of her ill will , and she was preparing to see him with a degree of composure , which astonished her husband and daughters .
i hate such false friends .
supposing him to be attached to me , would _my_ refusing to accept his hand , make him wish to bestow it on his cousin ?
but really , and upon my honour , i will try to do what i think to be wiet ; and now , i hope you are satisfied . "
i hope they will not meet at all .
i was very uncomfortable , i may say unhappy .
we were married , you know , at st clement ' s , because wickham ' s lodgings were in that parish .
he is come - mr bingley is come . - he is , indeed .
" if it is designedly done , they cannot be justified ; but i have no ie of there being so much design in the world as some persons imagie "
how could he spare half ten thousand pounds ? "
- my mind however is now made up on the subject , for having receie ordination at easter , i have been so fortunate as to be distinguished by the patronage of the right honourable lady catheriede bourgh , widow of sir lewis de bourgh , whose bounty and benefiece has preferred me to the valuable rectory of this parish , where it shall be my earnest endeavour to demean myself with grateful respect towards her ladyship , and be ever ready to perform those rie and ceremonies which are instituted by the church of england .
i shall pull it to pieces as soon as i get home , and see if i can make it up any better . "
" oh !
mr wickham did not play at whist , and with ready delight was he receie at the other table between elizabeth and lydia .
i wish i could say , for the sake of her family , that the accomplishment of her earnest desiein the establishment of so many of her children , produced so happy an effect as to make her a sensible , amiable , well informed woman for the rest of her lie though perhaps it was lucky for her husband , who might not have relished domestic felicity in so unusual a form , that she still was occasionally nervous and invariably silly .
they had nothing to accuse him of but prie priehe probably had , and if not , it would certainly be imputed by the inhabitants of a small market town , where the family did not visit .
it would have spared her from explanations and professions which it was exceedingly awkward to gie but they were now necessary , and she assured him with some confusion , of her attachment to mr darcy .
tell her that you insist upon her marrying him . "
he took the hint , and soon began with , " this seems a very comfortable house .
much as i abominate writing , i would not gieup mr collins ' s correspondence for any consieation .
who could have done less for her ?
" tell your sister i am delighted to hear of her improvement on the harp , and pray let her know that i am quiein raptures with her beautiful little design for a table , and i think it infiniey superior to miss grantley ' s . "
to work in his garden was one of his most respectable pleasures ; and elizabeth admie the command of countenance with which charlotte talked of the healthfulness of the exercie and owned she encouraged it as much as possible .
" i am much oblie to your ladyship for your kind invitation , " replied elizabeth , " but it is not in my power to accept it . - i must be in town next saturday . "
the housekeeper at netherfield had receie orders to prepare for the arrival of her master , who was coming down in a day or two , to shoot there for several weeks .
" if your master would marry , you might see more of him . "
" your conjecture is totally wrong , i assure you .
he smie , looked handsome , and said many pretty things .
you know my mother ' s ies as to the necessity of constant company for her friends .
the motieprofessed , was his conviction of its being owing to himself that wickham ' s worthlessness had not been so well known , as to make it impossible for any young woman of character , to love or confiein him .
why is not every body as happy ? "
you supposed more than really existed .
wiey different was the effect of a second perusal . - how could she deny that credit to his assertions , in one instance , which she had been oblie to giein the other ? - he declared himself to have been totally unsuspicious of her sister ' s attachment ; - and she could not help remembering what charlotte ' s opinion had always been . - neither could she deny the justieof his description of jane . - she felt that jane ' s feelings , though fervent , were little displayed , and that there was a constant complacency in her air and manner , not often unie with great sensibility .
mr bingley and jane remaie at netherfield only a twelvemonth .
to interrupt a siece which might make him fancy her affected with what had passed , she soon afterwards said , " i imagieyour cousin brought you down with him chiefly for the sake of having somebody at his disposal .
it is not the object of this work to giea description of derbyshie nor of any of the remarkable places through which their route thither lay ; oxford , blenheim , warwick , kenelworth , birmingham , & c . are sufficiently known .
my youngest sister has left all her friends - has eloped ; - has thrown herself into the power of - of mr wickham .
he generously imputed the whole to his mistaken prie and confessed that he had before thought it beneath him , to lay his private actions open to the world .
" have you any other objection , " said elizabeth , " than your belief of my indifference ? "
charlotte is an excellent manager , i dare say .
" but why should you wish to persuade me that i feel more than i acknowledge ? "
how are they even to be discovered ?
" prie " observed mary , who piqued herself upon the solidity of her reflections , " is a very common failing i believe .
no arguments shall be wanting on my part , that can alleviate so severe a misfortune ; or that may comfort you , under a circumstance that must be of all others most afflicting to a parent ' s mind .
she seems perfectly happy , however , and in a prudential light , it is certainly a very good match for her . "
" she has one only daughter , the heies of rosings , and of very extensieproperty . "
mr bennet saw that her whole heart was in the subject ; and affectionately taking her hand , said in reply , " do not make yourself uneasy , my love .
his revenge would have been complete indeed .
he was fond of the country and of books ; and from these tastes had arie his principal enjoyments .
there was novelty in the scheme , and as , with such a mother and such uncompanionable sisters , home could not be faultless , a little change was not unwelcome for its own sake .
<NUMBER> . b
" merely to the illustration of _your_ character , " said she , endeavouring to shake off her gravity .
on reaching the spacious lobby above , they were shewn into a very pretty sitting room , lately fitted up with greater elegance and lightness than the apartments below ; and were informed that it was but just done , to giepleasure to miss darcy , who had taken a liking to the room , when last at pemberley .
as for jane , _her_ anxiety under this suspence was , of course , more painful than elizabeth ' s ; but whatever she felt she was desirous of concealing , and between herself and elizabeth , therefore , the subject was never alluded to .
she then hastened away to her mother , who had purposely broken up the card party , and was sitting up stairs with kitty .
he listened to her with perfect indifference , whieshe chose to entertain herself in this manner , and as his composure convinced her that all was safe , her wit flowed long .
" she is happy , then , " said her father , drily ; " and her resiece there will probably be of some duration . "
" you shall hear then - but prepare yourself for something very dreadful .
elizabeth could not help smiling at his easy manner of dieting his friend .
any other inconsistencies with modern spellings have been left as printed .
it drew from her , however , the exertion of speaking , which nothing else had so effectually done before ; and she asked bingley , whether he meant to make any stay in the country at present .
she saw the indelicacy of putting himself forward as he had done , and the inconsistency of his professions with his conduct .
jane was beyond competition her favouriechild .
" i am more liey to want tiethan courage , elizabeth .
" though it is difficult , " said jane , " to guess in what way he can mean to make us the atonement he thinks our due , the wish is certainly to his credit . "
" but you are not entitled to know _mie ; nor will such behaviour as this , ever induce me to be explicit . "
chapter xxi
" we have die nietie at rosings , besie drinking tea there twie - how much i shall have to tell ! "
_they_ will take care not to outrun their income .
" certainly , " replied elizabeth - " there are such people , but i hope i am not one of _them_ .
if elizabeth , when mr darcy gave her the letter , did not expect it to contain a renewal of his offers , she had formed no expectation at all of its contents .
but mr bennet , was not so well pleased with it .
i have a high respect for your nerves .
are you going much farther ? "
" there certainly was some great mismanagement in the education of those two young men .
the rector of a parish has much to do . - in the first place , he must make such an agreement for tythes as may be beneficial to himself and not offensieto his patron .
jane was by no means better .
elizabeth made no answer .
she was overpowered by shame and vexation .
there is not a bit of fish to be got to day .
his appearance was greatly in his favour ; he had all the best part of beauty , a fine countenance , a good figure , and very pleasing address .
" i think i have heard you say , that their uncle is an attorney in meryton . "
for you are a young lady of deep reflection i know , and read great books , and make extracts . "
" i am not going to run away , papa , " said kitty , fretfully ; " if _i_ should ever go to brighton , i would behave better than lydia . "
does your charge gieyou much trouble ?
" what could he mean ?
mr bingley was good looking and gentleman lie he had a pleasant countenance , and easy , unaffected manners .
" i do not believe a word of it , my dear .
but if you are really innocent and ignorant , i must be more explicit .
" and what did she say ? "
thought she .
" and do you lieher ? "
the offie was the very mr denny , concerning whose return from london lydia came to inquie and he bowed as they passed .
elizabeth bennet had been oblie , by the scarcity of gentlemen , to sit down for two dances ; and during part of that tie mr darcy had been standing near enough for her to overhear a conversation between him and mr bingley , who came from the dance for a few minutes , to press his friend to join it .
there was neither in figure nor face , any lieess between the ladies .
" but how did he account for it ? "
to be sure it would have been more for the advantage of conversation , had miss lydia bennet come upon the town ; or , as the happiest alternatie been secluded from the world , in some distant farm house .
i cannot do justieto his kindness .
when all this was resolved on , he returned again to his friends , who were still staying at pemberley ; but it was agreed that he should be in london once more when the wedding took place , and all money matters were then to receiethe last finish .
" it would be nothing ; i could see him with perfect indifference , but i can hardly bear to hear it thus perpetually talked of .
_my_ affections and wishes are unchanged , but one word from you will siece me on this subject for ever . "
mr bennet was among the earliest of those who waie on mr bingley .
" but you _will_ know it , when i have told you what happened the very next day . "
elizabeth was pleased to find his memory so exact ; and he afterwards took occasion to ask her , when unattended to by any of the rest , whether _all_ her sisters were at longbourn .
" my father is gone to london , and jane has written to beg my uncle ' s immediate assistance , and we shall be off , i hope , in half an hour .
" i cannot see why mr forster should not ask _me_ as well as lydia , " said she , " though i am _not_ her particular friend .
" you need not distress yourself .
<NUMBER> .
could he expect to be notie again by the regiet , after such an affront to colonel forster ?
" if my children are silly i must hope to be always sensible of it . "
if there had not been a netherfield ball to prepare for and talk of , the younger miss bennets would have been in a pitiable state at this tie for from the day of the invitation , to the day of the ball , there was such a succession of rain as prevented their walking to meryton once .
it is because he will not giehimself the trouble . "
we dressed up chamberlayne in woman ' s clothes , on purpose to pass for a lady , - only think what fun !
the project gutenberg ebook , prieand prejudie by jane austen , edie by r w ( robert william ) chapman this ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with almost no restrictions whatsoever .
my child , let me not have the grief of seeing _you_ unable to respect your partner in lie
how can it affect them ? "
it was a comfort to elizabeth to consie that jane could not have been wearied by long expectations .
" _you_ want to tell me , and i have no objection to hearing it . "
lydia has no brothers to step forward ; and he might imagie from my father ' s behaviour , from his indolence and the little attention he has ever seemed to gieto what was going forward in his family , that _he_ would do as little , and think as little about it , as any father could do , in such a matter . "
he seemed astonished too on finding her alone , and apologie for his intrusion , by letting her know that he had understood all the ladies to be within .
* * * * * in the evening , soon after mr bennet withdrew to the library , she saw mr darcy riealso and follow him , and her agitation on seeing it was extreme .
" yes , madam , " said mr bennet , delighted to speak to a lady catherie
and a special liece .
you agree that the foundation , the trademark owner , and any distributor under this agreement will not be liable to you for actual , direct , indirect , consequential , punitive or incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of such damage
" from the very beginning , from the first moment i may almost say , of my acquaintance with you , your manners impressing me with the fullest belief of your arrogance , your conceit , and your selfish disdain of the feelings of others , were such as to form that ground work of disapprobation , on which succeeding events have built so immoveable a dislie and i had not known you a month before i felt that you were the last man in the world whom i could ever be prevaie on to marry . "
yes , i call it a _very_ easy distance . "
and so extremely accomplished for her age !
the commendation bestowed on him by mr reynolds was of no trifling nature .
i am sorry to pain you - but so it was .
it was plain to them all that colonel fitzwilliam came because he had pleasure in their society , a persuasion which of course recommended him still more ; and elizabeth was reminded by her own satisfaction in being with him , as well as by his eviet admiration of her , of her former favouriegeorge wickham ; and though , in comparing them , she saw there was less captivating softness in colonel fitzwilliam ' s manners , she believed he might have the best informed mind .
chapter iii
for , though your accusations were ill founded , formed on mistaken premie , my behaviour to you at the tie had merie the severest reproof .
collins has made an offer to lizzy , and she will not have him . "
perhaps i did not always love him so well as i do now .
that had his actions been what wickham represented them , so gross a violation of every thing right could hardly have been concealed from the world ; and that friendship between a person capable of it , and such an amiable man as mr bingley , was incomprehensible .
she turned from sister to sister , demanding their congratulations , and when at length they all sat down , looked eagerly round the room , took notieof some little alteration in it , and observed , with a laugh , that it was a great whiesince she had been there .
i shall go distracted . "
she had scarcely needed her present observation to be satisfied , from the reason of things , that their elopement had been brought on by the strength of her love , rather than by his ; and she would have wondered why , without violently caring for her , he chose to elope with her at all , had she not felt certain that his flight was rendered necessary by distress of circumstances ; and if that were the case , he was not the young man to resist an opportunity of having a companion .
she could neither wonder nor condemn , but the belief of his self conquest brought nothing consolatory to her bosom , afforded no palliation of her distress .
i am afraid you will not be able to make it out , but i hardly know what i have written . "
elizabeth however did not chuse to take the hint , being well aware that a serious dispute must be the consequence of any reply .
mr bennet was profuse in her acknowledgments .
on applying to see the place , they were admitted into the hall ; and elizabeth , as they waie for the housekeeper , had leisure to wonder at her being where she was .
" i wonder my aunt did not tell us of _that_ . "
caroliedid not return my visit till yesterday ; and not a note , not a lie did i receiein the mean tie
why , he has four or fiethousand a year , and very liey more . "
i do not think it is very pretty ; but i thought i might as well buy it as not .
had miss bingley known what pain she was then giving her beloved friend , she undoubtedly would have refraie from the hint ; but she had merely intended to discompose elizabeth , by bringing forward the ie of a man to whom she believed her partial , to make her betray a sensibility which might injure her in darcy ' s opinion , and perhaps to remind the latter of all the follies and absurdities , by which some part of her family were connected with that corps .
" and men take care that they should . "
why did she come ?
- and upon elizabeth ' s seeming really , with vexed and embarrassed looks , about to escape , she added , " lizzy , i _insist_ upon your staying and hearing mr
no one but mr bennet , regretted that their stay would be so short ; and she made the most of the tie by visiting about with her daughter , and having very frequent parties at home .
such very superior dancing is not often seen .
she was confiet of having performed her duty , and to fret over unavoidable evils , or augment them by anxiety , was no part of her disposition .
jane looked at elizabeth with surprieand concern .
i have scarcely any hesitation in saying that she will include you and my sister maria in every invitation with which she honours us during your stay here .
_you_ wish to think all the world respectable , and are hurt if i speak ill of any body .
in his present behaviour to herself , moreover , she had a fresh source of displeasure , for the inclination he soon testified of renewing those attentions which had marked the early part of their acquaintance , could only serve , after what had since passed , to provoke her .
they travelled as expeditiously as possible ; and sleeping one night on the road , reached longbourn by dinner tiethe next day .
" an easy distance do you call it ?
project gutenberg volunteers and employees expend consieable effort to ietify , do copyright research on , transcrieand proofread public domain works in creating the project gutenberg tm collection .
" a place too , with which so many of your acquaintance are connected .
upon my honour , i never met with so many pleasant girls in my lie as i have this evening ; and there are several of them you see uncommonly pretty . "
it would vex me , indeed , to see you again the dupe of miss bingley ' s pretended regard . "
" could i expect it to be otherwie "
i need not explain myself farther ; and though _we_ know this anxiety to be quieneedless , yet if she feels it , it will easily account for her behaviour to me ; and so deservedly dear as he is to his sister , whatever anxiety she may feel on his behalf , is natural and amiable .
all was acknowledged , and half the night spent in conversation .
your liey talents would place you in the greatest danger in an unequal marriage .
said she .
such squeamish youths as cannot bear to be connected with a little absurdity , are not worth a regret .
he had by that tiereached it also , and holding out a letter , which she instinctiey took , said with a look of haughty composure , " i have been walking in the grove some tiein the hope of meeting you .
" exceedingly well .
" yes , or i will never see her again . "
mr gardie and elizabeth talked of all that had occurred , during their visit , as they returned , except what had particularly interested them both .
the whole party before them , indeed , excie a liey attention .
mr bennet could hardly comprehend it .
it was over at last however .
i speak feelingly .
the principal purport of his letter was to inform them , that mr wickham had resolved on quitting the militia .
" we will be down as soon as we can , " said jane ; " but i dare say kitty is forwarder than either of us , for she went up stairs half an hour ago . "
indeed you must go , for it will be impossible for _us_ to visit him , if you do not . "
the foundation makes no representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any country outsiethe unie sttes .
her father lifted up his eyes .
jane ' s delicate sense of honour would not allow her to speak to elizabeth privately of what lydia had let fall ; elizabeth was glad of it ; - till it appeared whether her inquiries would receieany satisfaction , she had rather be without a confidante .
if he no longer cares for me , why siet ?
my aunt ' s intelliece had gie me hope , and i was determie at once to know every thing . "
" what do you mean ? "
it cannot last long .
she knew but little of their meeting in derbyshie and therefore felt for the awkwardness which must attend her sister , in seeing him almost for the first time after receiving his explanatory letter .
jane and elizabeth looked at each other , and the waie was told that he need not stay .
where there is fortune to make the expence of travelling unimportant , distance becomes no evil .
but i know the foundation is unjust .
the justieof the charge struck her too forcibly for denial , and the circumstances to which he particularly alluded , as having passed at the netherfield ball , and as confirming all his first disapprobation , could not have made a stronger impression on his mind than on hers .
mr collins was eloquent in her praie
what is the matter ? "
it was gratitude . - gratitude , not merely for having once loved her , but for loving her still well enough , to forgieall the petulance and acrimony of her manner in rejecting him , and all the unjust accusations accompanying her rejection .
mr darcy ' s behaviour astonished and vexed her .
but the horror of what might possibly happen , almost took from me my faculties . "
how grievous then was the thought that , of a situation so desirable in every respect , so replete with advantage , so promising for happies , jane had been deprie , by the folly and indecorum of her own family !
my father was not only fond of this young man ' s society , whose manners were always engaging ; he had also the highest opinion of him , and hoping the church would be his profession , intended to proviefor him in it .
" but my father cannot . - he wrote last week to hurry my return . "
a regard for the requester would often make one readily yield to a request , without waiting for arguments to reason one into it .
" we never had any governess . "
she was a little revie , however , by his bringing back his coffee cup himself ; and she seie the opportunity of saying , " is your sister at pemberley still ? "
lizzy , you must walk out with him again , that he may not be in bingley ' s way . "
sir william did not say much .
lady catheries great attentions to mr collins you have been a daily witness of ; and altogether i trust it does not appear that your friend has drawn an unfortunate - but on this point it will be as well to be siet .
you deserve no such attention .
she was then proceeding to all the particulars of calico , muslin , and cambric , and would shortly have dictated some very plentiful orders , had not jane , though with some difficulty , persuaded her to wait , till her father was at leisure to be consulted .
she was not the better pleased with his gallantry , from the ie it suggested of something more . - it now first struck her , that _she_ was selected from among her sisters as worthy of being the mistress of hunsford parsonage , and of assisting to form a quadrille table at rosings , in the absence of more eligible visitors .
" indeed ! "
but now it comes out . "
i was sometie quieprovoked , but then i recollected my dear elizabeth and jane , and for their sakes had patience with her .
what am i to do ? "
all that i can promieyou , therefore , is not to be in a hurry .
it is a great comfort to have you so rich , and when you have nothing else to do , i hope you will think of us .
he begged pardon for having displeased her .
yes .
" i confess , " said he , " that i should not have been at all surprie by her ladyship ' s asking us on sunday to drink tea and spend the evening at rosings .
mr bennet was quiein the fidgets .
their first subject was her sister ; and she was more grieved than astonished to hear , in reply to her minute enquiries , that though jane always struggled to support her spirits , there were periods of dejection .
lady catheriewas extremely indignant on the marriage of her nephew ; and as she gave way to all the genuiefrankness of her character , in her reply to the letter which announced its arrangement , she sent him language so very abusie especially of elizabeth , that for some time all intercourse was at an end .
or had you intended any more serious consequence ? "
" it is a proof of your own attachment to hertfordshie
" how niey we are crammed in ! "
repeated miss bingley .
i cannot be otherwiethan concerned at being the means of injuring your amiable daughters , and beg leave to apologiefor it , as well as to assure you of my readies to make them every possible amends , - but of this hereafter .
at that instant she felt , that years of happies could not make jane or herself amends , for moments of such painful confusion .
i was gie good principles , but left to follow them in pride and conceit .
but , on second thoughts , perhaps lizzy could tell us , what relations he has now living , better than any other person . "
she began now to comprehend that he was exactly the man , who , in disposition and talents , would most suit her .
there he had talked to her friends , when he could not to herself .
many of his expressions were still fresh in her memory .
the collinses will turn us out , before he is cold in his grave ; and if you are not kind to us , brother , i do not know what we shall do . "
my feelings will not be repressed .
she was a woman of mean understanding , little information , and uncertain temper .
my dear , " cried his wie " i cannot bear to hear that mentioned .
- you proviea full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies you in writing ( or by e mail ) within <NUMBER> days of receipt that s / he does not agree to the terms of the full project gutenberg tm liese .
elizabeth was now to see mr wickham for the last tie
i knew you would be wishing me joy . "
but elizabeth , who had not the least inclination to remain with them , laughingly answered , " no , no ; stay where you are . - you are charmingly group had , and appear to uncommon advantage .
my resolution of thanking you for your kindness to lydia had certainly great effect .
no , kitty , i have at last learnt to be cautious , and you will feel the effects of it .
if such goodness does not make her mieable now , she will never deserve to be happy !
for a few moments , indeed , she felt that he would probably strieinto some other path .
there is but such a quantity of merit between them ; just enough to make one good sort of man ; and of late it has been shifting about pretty much .
he then went away , and miss bingley was left to all the satisfaction of having forced him to say what gave no one any pain but herself .
" your humility , mr bingley , " said elizabeth , " must disarm reproof . "
jane had already written a few lie to her sister to announce their safe arrival in london ; and when she wrote again , elizabeth hoped it would be in her power to say something of the bingleys .
yes , miss bennet , interest ; for do not expect to be notie by his family or friends , if you wilfully act against the inclinations of all .
what a good joke it will be !
the one missent must be first attended to ; it had been written fiedays ago .
" aye , so it is , " cried her mother , " and mr long does not come back till the day before ; so , it will be impossible for her to introduce him , for she will not know him herself . "
what could your ladyship propose by it ? "
upon the whole , therefore , she found , what has been sometie found before , that an event to which she had looked forward with impatient desie did not in taking place , bring all the satisfaction she had promie herself .
but we must stem the tieof malie and pour into the wounded bosoms of each other , the balm of sisterly consolation . "
he die with us the next day , and was to leave town again on wednesday or thursday .
about a year ago , she was taken from school , and an establishment formed for her in london ; and last summer she went with the lady who presie over it , to ramsgate ; and thither also went mr wickham , undoubtedly by design ; for there proved to have been a prior acquaintance between him and mr younge , in whose character we were most unhappily deceie ; and by her connivance and aid , he so far recommended himself to georgiana , whose affectionate heart retaie a strong impression of his kindness to her as a child , that she was persuaded to believe herself in love , and to consent to an elopement .
you will not be fit to be seen when you get there . "
such a disappointment !
cried elizabeth .
after this period , every appearance of acquaintance was dropt .
both changed colour , one looked whie the other red .
elizabeth ' s mind was now relieved from a very heavy weight ; and , after half an hour ' s quiet reflection in her own room , she was able to join the others with tolerable composure .
every thing that is charming !
she said no more , and they went down the other dance and parted in siece ; on each siedissatisfied , though not to an equal degree , for in darcy ' s breast there was a tolerable powerful feeling towards her , which soon procured her pardon , and dieted all his anger against another .
" he must be an oddity , i think , " said she .
when you told mr bennet this morning that if you ever resolved on quitting netherfield you should be gone in fieminutes , you meant it to be a sort of panegyric , of compliet to yourself - and yet what is there so very laudable in a precipitance which must leave very necessary busies undone , and can be of no real advantage to yourself or any one else ? "
all were struck with the stranger ' s air , all wondered who he could be , and kitty and lydia , determie if possible to find out , led the way across the street , under pretence of wanting something in an opposieshop , and fortunately had just gaie the pavement when the two gentlemen turning back had reached the same spot .
the subjection in which his father had brought him up , had gie him originally great humility of manner , but it was now a good deal counteracted by the self conceit of a weak head , living in retieent , and the consequential feelings of early and unexpected prosperity .
you must send john with the young ladies , mr collins .
she dared not relate the other half of mr darcy ' s letter , nor explain to her sister how sincerely she had been valued by his friend .
she had very little notiefrom any but him .
poor dear child !
" upon my word i say no more _here_ than i might say in any house in the neighbourhood , except netherfield .
one morning , soon after their arrival , as she was sitting with her two elder sisters , she said to elizabeth , " lizzy , i never gave _you_ an account of my wedding , i believe .
he was seriously concerned , that a cause of so little advantage to any one , should be forwarded at the sole expence of his brother in - law , and he was determie , if possible , to find out the extent of his assistance , and to discharge the obligation as soon as he could .
the housekeeper came ; a respectable looking , elderly woman , much less fie and more civil , than she had any notion of finding her .
i wonder what he can be doing there . "
they gradually ascended for half a mie and then found themselves at the top of a consieable emiece , where the wood ceased , and the eye was instantly caught by pemberley house , situated on the opposiesieof a valley , into which the road with some abruptness wound .
no . - i am sure we never read the same , or not with the same feelings . "
" no ; he never saw him till the other morning at meryton . "
oh !
" and this is always the way with him , " she added . - " whatever can giehis sister any pleasure , is sure to be done in a moment .
" oh !
it is a nielong walk , and mr darcy has never seen the view . "
as mr gardie began to wish to be at home , it was settled that she and her children should go to london , at the same tiethat mr bennet came from it .
" _my_ overhearings were more to the purpose than _yours_ , eliza , " said charlotte .
poor lydia ' s situation must , at best , be bad enough ; but that it was no worse , she had need to be thankful .
oh !
here consequently was an iehaustible subject of discourse .
" a great deal of good management , depend upon it .
james ' s ? "
when they repaie to the dining room , elizabeth eagerly watched to see whether bingley would take the place , which , in all their former parties , had belonged to him , by her sister .
mr bennet , we shall have her at netherfield at last . '
with amazement did she first understand that he believed any apology to be in his power ; and steadfastly was she persuaded that he could have no explanation to gie which a just sense of shame would not conceal .
" may i ask to what these questions tend ? "
your ' s , & c . " edw
to this discovery succeeded some others equally mortifying .
" oh !
if gratitude and esteem are good foundations of affection , elizabeth ' s change of sentiet will be neither improbable nor faulty .
what congratulations will then flow in !
" to oblieyou , i would try to believe almost any thing , but no one else could be benefie by such a belief as this ; for were i persuaded that charlotte had any regard for him , i should only think worse of her understanding , than i now do of her heart .
our poor mother is sadly grieved .
i have met with two instances lately ; one i will not mention ; the other is charlotte ' s marriage .
cried mr gardie , whose curiosity as to the mode of her intelliece was all alie
if this be the case , he deserves you .
they had not long separated when miss bingley came towards her , and with an expression of civil disdain thus accosted her , " so , miss eliza , i hear you are quiedelighted with george wickham ! - your sister has been talking to me about him , and asking me a thousand questions ; and i find that the young man forgot to tell you , among his other communications , that he was the son of old wickham , the late mr darcy ' s steward .
" fitzwilliam darcy "
besie , there was truth in his looks . "
" oh , lizzy !
" it is from miss bingley , " said jane , and then read it aloud .
" i beg your pardon ; - one knows exactly what to think . "
as she spoke , she observed him looking at her earnestly , and the manner in which he immediately asked her why she supposed miss darcy liey to giethem any uneasies , convinced her that she had somehow or other got pretty near the truth .
but however he did not .
it became her turn to listen .
it is only that he has better means of having it than many others , because he is rich , and many others are poor .
copyright laws in most countries are in a constant state of change .
- a short pause followed this speech , and mr hurst began again .
" i cannot be so easily reconcie to myself .
as soon as they were gone , elizabeth walked out to recover her spirits ; or in other words , to dwell without interruption on those subjects that must deaden them more .
he meant to proviefor me amply , and thought he had done it ; but when the living fell , it was gie elsewhere . "
they are gone off together from brighton .
no - it is not for _me_ to be drie away by mr darcy .
with all these circumstances to favour an attachment and nothing to prevent it , am i wrong , my dearest jane , in indulging the hope of an event which will secure the happies of so many ? "
with assumed tranquillity he then replied , " i have no wish of denying that i did every thing in my power to separate my friend from your sister , or that i rejoiein my success .
see http : / archieorg / stream / novelstextbasedo02austuoft <HASHTAG> transcrie ' s note : text enclosed by underscores is in italics ( _italics_ ) .
the envelope contaie a sheet of elegant , little , hot pressed paper , well covered with a lady ' s fair , flowing hand ; and elizabeth saw her sister ' s countenance change as she read it , and saw her dwelling intently on some particular passages .
he was her dear wickham on every occasion ; no one was to be put in competition with him .
mr darcy bowed .
when those dances were over she returned to charlotte lucas , and was in conversation with her , when she found herself suddenly addressed by mr darcy , who took her so much by surpriein his application for her hand , that , without knowing what she did , she accepted him .
during their walk , it was resolved that mr bennet ' s consent should be asked in the course of the evening .
can there be any other opinion on the subject ? "
a long dispute followed this declaration ; but mr bennet was firm : it soon led to another ; and mr bennet found , with amazement and horror , that her husband would not advance a guie to buy clothes for his daughter .
her father had been an attorney in meryton , and had left her four thousand pounds .
his being such a charming young man , and so rich , and living but three mie from them , were the first points of self gratulation ; and then it was such a comfort to think how fond the two sisters were of jane , and to be certain that they must desiethe connection as much as she could do .
repeated mr bennet .
she enquie after his sister , but could do no more .
consie mr collins ' s respectability , and charlotte ' s prudent , steady character .
such amiable qualities must speak for themselves .
not a word , however , passed his lips in allusion to it , till their visitor took his leave for the night ; but as soon as he was gone , he turned to his daughter and said , " jane , i congratulate you .
kitty , to her very material advantage , spent the chief of her tiewith her two elder sisters .
i have therefore made up my mind to tell you , that i do not want to dance a reel at all - and now despieme if you dare . "
but when you have had tieto think it all over , i hope you will be satisfied with what i have done .
it was an evening of no common delight to them all ; the satisfaction of miss bennet ' s mind gave a glow of such sweet animation to her face , as made her look handsomer than ever .
he begins with congratulations on the approaching nuptials of my eldest daughter , of which it seems he has been told , by some of the good natured , gossiping lucases .
my sister , i am sure , will not hear of her removal . "
never , since reading jane ' s second letter , had she entertaie a hope of wickham ' s meaning to marry her .
chapter xiii
london : printed for t egerton , military library , whieall .
charlotte ' s first letters were receie with a good deal of eagerness ; there could not but be curiosity to know how she would speak of her new home , how she would lielady catherie and how happy she would dare pronounce herself to be ; though , when the letters were read , elizabeth felt that charlotte expressed herself on every point exactly as she might have foreseen .
had they been only ten minutes sooner , they should have been beyond the reach of his discrimination , for it was plain that he was that moment arrie , that moment alighted from his horse or his carriage .
" and may i ask ? "
" it is a delightful thing , to be sure , to have a daughter well married , " continued her mother , " but at the same tie mr bingley , it is very hard to have her taken such a way from me .
lady catherieseemed resigned .
<NUMBER> . e5 .
the gentleman experienced some change of feeling ; he drew back his chair , took a newspaper from the table , and , glancing over it , said , in a colder voie " are you pleased with kent ? "
he resigned all claim to assistance in the church , were it possible that he could ever be in a situation to receieit , and accepted in return three thousand pounds .
they may be there , though for the purpose of concealment , for no more exceptionable purpose .
elizabeth jumped out ; and , after giving each of them an hasty kiss , hurried into the vestibule , where jane , who came running down stairs from her mother ' s apartment , immediately met her .
how well it sounds .
he could tell her nothing new of the wonders of his presentation and knighthood ; and his civilities were worn out liehis information .
allow me to say , however , that your fair partner does not disgrace you , and that i must hope to have this pleasure often repeated , especially when a certain desirable event , my dear miss eliza , ( glancing at her sister and bingley , ) shall take place .
" some acquaintance or other , my dear , i suppose ; i am sure i do not know . "
you are not going to be _missish_ , i hope , and pretend to be affronted at an idle report .
what will become of me .
" it seems liey to have been a desirable match for jane , " said she .
" but consie your daughters .
<NUMBER> . e9 .
" i do not see what right mr darcy had to decieon the propriety of his friend ' s inclination , or why , upon his own judgment alone , he was to determieand diet in what manner that friend was to be happy . "
" good gracious ! "
i always said it must be so , at last .
were the same fair prospect to arieat present , as had flattered them a year ago , every thing , she was persuaded , would be hastening to the same vexatious conclusion .
darcy , after enquiring of her how mr and mr gardie did , a question which she could not answer without confusion , said scarcely any thing .
do you often dance at st
the soup was fifty tie better than what we had at the lucas ' s last week ; and even mr darcy acknowledged , that the partridges were remarkably well done ; and i suppose he has two or three french cooks at least .
in comparing her recollection of pemberley , with the minute description which wickham could gie and in bestowing her tribute of praieon the character of its late possessor , she was delighting both him and herself .
i always thought they were very unfit to have the charge of her ; but i was over ruled , as i always am .
you have wiey mistaken my character , if you think i can be worked on by such persuasions as these .
though mr bennet was not imagie to be very rich , he would have been able to do something for him , and his situation must have been benefie by marriage .
but let me advieyou to think better of it .
" his guilt and his descent appear by your account to be the same , " said elizabeth angrily ; " for i have heard you accuse him of nothing worse than of being the son of mr darcy ' s steward , and of _that_ , i can assure you , he informed me himself . "
" were it certain that lady catheriewould think so , " said mr collins very gravely - " but i cannot imagiethat her ladyship would at all disapprove of you .
" with the offies ! "
but i think mr darcy improves on acquaintance . "
" miss bennet , do you know who i am ?
from what can it proceed ?
charlotte assured her friend of her satisfaction in being useful , and that it amply repaid her for the little sacrifieof her tie
and having to relate such a thing of his sister !
she saw herself the object of attention , to tens and to scores of them at present unknown .
it was at sir william lucas ' s , where a large party were assembled .
you had better return to your partner and enjoy her smie , for you are wasting your tiewith me . "
she found that she was to receieno other answer - and , after a short pause , added , " i think i have understood that mr bingley has not much ie of ever returning to netherfield again ? "
that i had been with you , you have had every care and anxiety upon yourself alone . "
with no greater events than these in the longbourn family , and otherwise diesified by little beyond the walks to meryton , sometie dirty and sometie cold , did january and february pass away .
" most willingly . "
for god ' s sake , say no more of his partners .
" a man who had felt less , might . "
they were ignorant , idle , and vain .
indeed , mr darcy , it is very ungenerous in you to mention all that you knew to my disadvantage in hertfordshie and , gieme leave to say , very impolitic too - for it is provoking me to retaliate , and such things may come out , as will shock your relations to hear . "
her brother ' s recommendation was enough to ensure her favour : his judgment could not err , and he had spoken in such terms of elizabeth , as to leave georgiana without the power of finding her otherwiethan lovely and amiable .
elizabeth felt herself growing more angry every moment ; yet she tried to the utmost to speak with composure when she said , " you are mistaken , mr darcy , if you suppose that the mode of your declaration affected me in any other way , than as it spared me the concern which i might have felt in refusing you , had you behaved in a more gentleman liemanner . "
mr and mr collins have a comfortable income , but not such a one as will allow of frequent journeys - and i am persuaded my friend would not call herself _near_ her family under less than _half_ the present distance . "
as the weather was fie they had a pleasant walk of about half a mile across the park . - every park has its beauty and its prospects ; and elizabeth saw much to be pleased with , though she could not be in such raptures as mr collins expected the scene to inspie and was but slightly affected by his enumeration of the windows in front of the house , and his relation of what the glazing altogether had originally cost sir lewis de bourgh .
i joie them unexpectedly a day or two before the intended elopement , and then georgiana , unable to support the ie of grieving and offending a brother whom she almost looked up to as a father , acknowledged the whole to me .
stady to his purpose , he scarcely spoke ten words to her through the whole of saturday , and though they were at one tieleft by themselves for half an hour , he adhered most conscientiously to his book , and would not even look at her .
when mr bennet wrote again to his brother , therefore , he sent his permission for them to come ; and it was settled , that as soon as the ceremony was over , they should proceed to longbourn .
i hope your plans in favour of the - shiewill not be affected by his being in the neighbourhood . "
" is my father in town ? "
it might seem as if she had purposely thrown herself in his way again !
his prie in that dietion , may be of servie if not to himself , to many others , for it must deter him from such foul misconduct as i have suffered by .
you know how i detest it , unless i am particularly acquainted with my partner .
she had not been many hours at home , before she found that the brighton scheme , of which lydia had gie them a hint at the inn , was under frequent discussion between her parents .
" what , has she frightened away some of your lovers ?
" let us sit down .
i should never be happy without him , so think it no harm to be off .
limited right of replacement or refund - if you discover a defect in this electronic work within <NUMBER> days of receiving it , you can receiea refund of the money ( if any ) you paid for it by sending a written explanation to the person you receie the work from .
elizabeth sietly attended her .
soon after their return , a letter was delieed to miss bennet ; it came from netherfield , and was opened immediately .
i am sure we owe him no such particular civility as to be oblie to say nothing _he_ may not lieto hear . "
they always continue to grow sufficiently unlieafterwards to have their share of vexation ; and it is better to know as little as possible of the defects of the person with whom you are to pass your lie "
the occurrences of the day were too full of interest to leave elizabeth much attention for any of these new friends ; and she could do nothing but think , and think with wonder , of mr darcy ' s civility , and above all , of his wishing her to be acquainted with his sister .
what say you , mary ?
<NUMBER> of la belle assemblee <NUMBER> ^ { st } july <NUMBER> _ ] pride & prejudice
" perhaps that is not possible for any one .
i am sure there was some great neglect or other on their sie for she is not the kind of girl to do such a thing , if she had been well looked after .
mr collins returned most punctually on the monday fortnight , but his reception at longbourn was not quieso gracious as it had been on his first introduction .
" i had much rather go in the coach . "
mr collins on his return highly gratified mr bennet by admiring mr philips ' s manners and polieess .
no scheme could have been more agreeable to elizabeth , and her acceptance of the invitation was most ready and grateful .
" what can be the meaning of this ! "
<NUMBER> . e4 .
so far each recital confirmed the other : but when she came to the will , the difference was great .
we all know him to be a proud , unpleasant sort of man ; but this would be nothing if you really lie him . "
elizabeth was sitting by herself the next morning , and writing to jane , whiemr collins and maria were gone on busies into the village , when she was startled by a ring at the door , the certain signal of a visitor .
" yes ; these four evenings have enabled them to ascertain that they both lievingt un better than commerce ; but with respect to any other leading characteristic , i do not imagiethat much has been unfolded . "
he was at the same tiehaughty , reserved , and fastidious , and his manners , though well bred , were not inviting .
the faces of both , however , were tolerably calm ; and no change was visible in either , except that the loss of her favouriesister , or the anger which she had herself incurred in the busies , had gie something more of fretfulness than usual , to the accents of kitty .
the next morning , however , made an alteration ; for in a quarter of an hour ' s tte -  - tte with mr bennet before breakfast , a conversation beginning with his parsonage house , and leading naturally to the avowal of his hopes , that a mistress for it might be found at longbourn , produced from her , amid very complaisant smie and general encouragement , a caution against the very jane he had fie on . - " as to her _younger_ daughters she could not take upon her to say - she could not positiey answer - but she did not _know_ of any prepossession ; - her _eldest_ daughter , she must just mention - she felt it incumbent on her to hint , was liey to be very soon engaged . "
the tumult of elizabeth ' s mind was allayed by this conversation .
cried his wieimpatiently .
you blamed me for coming ? "
but papa is so disagreeable . "
" my dear niece , " i have just receie your letter , and shall devote this whole morning to answering it , as i foresee that a _little_ writing will not compriewhat i have to tell you .
it is such a spur to one ' s genius , such an opening for wit to have a dislieof that kind .
it was , on the contrary , exactly calculated to make her understand her own wishes ; and never had she so honestly felt that she could have loved him , as now , when all love must be vain .
_you_ know him too well to doubt the rest .
" do you really think so ? "
i pity , though i cannot help blaming her .
" and i certainly _never_ shall gieit .
mr bennet sent them word that they could not possibly have the carriage before tuesday ; and in her postscript it was added , that if mr bingley and his sister pressed them to stay longer , she could spare them very well . - against staying longer , however , elizabeth was positiey resolved - nor did she much expect it would be asked ; and fearful , on the contrary , as being consieed as intruding themselves needlessly long , she urged jane to borrow mr bingley ' s carriage immediately , and at length it was settled that their original design of leaving netherfield that morning should be mentioned , and the request made .
she had a sister married to a mr philips , who had been a clerk to their father , and succeeded him in the busies , and a brother settled in london in a respectable lieof trade .
it would surely be much more rational if conversation instead of dancing made the order of the day . "
we are not on friendly terms , and it always gie me pain to meet him , but i have no reason for avoiding _him_ but what i might proclaim to all the world ; a sense of very great ill usage , and most painful regrets at his being what he is .
" and your assurance of it , i suppose , carried immediate conviction to him . "
the ie of mr collins , with all his solemn composure , being run away with by his feelings , made elizabeth so near laughing that she could not use the short pause he allowed in any attempt to stop him farther , and he continued : " my reasons for marrying are , first , that i think it a right thing for every clergyman in easy circumstances ( liemyself ) to set the example of matrimony in his parish .
" of whom does jane ever think ill ?
you know pretty well , i suppose , what has been done for the young people .
you alluded to something else .
it makes me very nervous and poorly , to be thwarted so in my own family , and to have neighbours who think of themselves before anybody else .
darcy ! - there is nothing liedancing after all . - i consie it as one of the first refieents of polished societies . "
elizabeth saw dietly that her father had not the smallest intention of yielding ; but his answers were at the same tieso vague and equivocal , that her mother , though often disheartened , had never yet despaie of succeeding at last .
the dinner too in its turn was highly admie ; and he begged to know to which of his fair cousins , the excellence of its cookery was owing .
i only hope they may have half my good luck .
he owed a good deal in the town , but his debts of honour were still more formidable .
in future , i hope we shall be always of one mind . "
this , madam , is a faithful narratieof every event in which we have been concerned together ; and if you do not absolutely reject it as false , you will , i hope , acquit me henceforth of cruelty towards mr wickham .
i had not an ie of it . "
oh !
cried elizabeth , with the greatest satisfaction .
they talked of his sister , his friends , his house , his fruit , of every thing but himself ; yet elizabeth was longing to know what mr gardie thought of him , and mr gardie would have been highly gratified by her niece ' s beginning the subject .
" then you would drink a great deal more than you ought , " said mr bennet ; " and if i were to see you at it i should take away your bottle dietly . "
but you have chosen your fault well . - i really cannot _laugh_ at it .
why did the forsters ever let her go out of their sight ?
i am not so selfish , however , as to press for it , if inconvenient .
i must beg to return to the house . "
every thing was too recent for gaiety , but the evening passed tranquilly away ; there was no longer any thing material to be dreaded , and the comfort of ease and familiarity would come in tie
some people call him proud ; but i am sure i never saw any thing of it .
" yes .
mr bennet ' s best comfort was , that mr bingley must be down again in the summer .
stpid men are the only ones worth knowing , after all . "
shall you lieto have such a brother ? "
" perhaps you mean what i overheard between him and mr robinson ; did not i mention it to you ?
" perhaps it will be as well , if you discourage his coming here so very often .
" whiemary is adjusting her ies , " he continued , " let us return to mr
no , no , you shall not deceieme .
colonel fitzwilliam entered into conversation dietly with the readies and ease of a well bred man , and talked very pleasantly ; but his cousin , after having addressed a slight observation on the house and garden to mr collins , sat for some tiewithout speaking to any body .
kitty and me were to spend the day there , and mr forster promie to have a little dance in the evening ; ( by the bye , mr forster and me are _such_ friends ! )
but they did pass away , and mr and mr gardie , with their four children , did at length appear at longbourn .
miss bingley was then sorry that she had proposed the delay , for her jealousy and dislike of one sister much exceeded her affection for the other .
the two youngest of the family , catherieand lydia , were particularly frequent in these attentions ; their minds were more vacant than their sisters ' , and when nothing better offered , a walk to meryton was necessary to amuse their morning hours and furnish conversation for the evening ; and however bare of news the country in general might be , they always contrie to learn some from their aunt .
risk any thing rather than her displeasure ; and if you find it liey to be raie by your coming to us again , which i should think exceedingly probable , stay quietly at home , and be satisfied that _we_ shall take no offence . "
he drew a chair near her .
this was invitation enough .
there ' s for you !
what praieis more valuable than the praise of an intelliet servant ?
she was at least free from the offence of mr darcy ' s farther notie though often standing within a very short distance of her , quite diegaged , he never came near enough to speak .
but with such a father and mother , and such low connections , i am afraid there is no chance of it . "
" probably not ; - but mr darcy can please where he chuses .
i will think no more about him . "
" the letter shall certainly be burnt , if you believe it essential to the preservation of my regard ; but , though we have both reason to think my opinions not entiey unalterable , they are not , i hope , quieso easily changed as that implies . "
miss lucas perceie him from an upper window as he walked towards the house , and instantly set out to meet him accietally in the lane .
" i am far from attributing any part of mr bingley ' s conduct to design , " said elizabeth ; " but without scheming to do wrong , or to make others unhappy , there may be error , and there may be miey .
" my dear lizzy , where can you have been walking to ? "
that it would be done with such trifling exertion on his sie too , was another very welcome surprie for his chief wish at present , was to have as little trouble in the busies as possible .
wholly inattentieto her sister ' s feelings , lydia flew about the house in restless ecstacy , calling for every one ' s congratulations , and laughing and talking with more violence than ever ; whilst the luckless kitty continued in the parlour repining at her fate in terms as unreasonable as her accent was peevish .
" she is a very fielooking woman !
" that it ought not to be attempted .
she had never perceie , whiethe regiet was in hertfordshie that lydia had any partiality for him , but she was convinced that lydia had wanted only encouragement to attach herself to any body .
we had such a good piece of fun the other day at colonel forster ' s .
the hall , the dining room , and all its furniture were examie and praie ; and his commendation of every thing would have touched mr bennet ' s heart , but for the mortifying supposition of his viewing it all as his own future property .
he concluded with representing to her the strength of that attachment which , in spieof all his endeavours , he had found impossible to conquer ; and with expressing his hope that it would now be rewarded by her acceptance of his hand .
" when i am in the country , " he replied , " i never wish to leave it ; and when i am in town it is pretty much the same .
" i have been making the tour of the park , " he replied , " as i generally do every year , and intend to close it with a call at the parsonage .
elizabeth , who was left by herself , now smie at the rapidity and ease with which an affair was finally settled , that had gie them so many previous months of suspense and vexation .
he never said a great deal , nor did she gieherself the trouble of talking or of listening much ; but it struck her in the course of their third rencontre that he was asking some odd unconnected questions - about her pleasure in being at hunsford , her love of solitary walks , and her opinion of mr and mr collins ' s happies ; and that in speaking of rosings and her not perfectly understanding the house , he seemed to expect that whenever she came into kent again she would be staying _there_ too .
she often tried to provoke darcy into disliking her guest , by talking of their supposed marriage , and planning his happies in such an alliance .
" oh !
mr bennet , you are wanted immediately ; we are all in an uproar .
which will not be yours till after your mother ' s decease , is all that you may ever be entitled to .
his acquaintance with elizabeth was very trifling . "
how i laughed !
and you saw the old housekeeper , i suppose ?
she became jealous of his esteem , when she could no longer hope to be benefie by it .
_that_ abominable mr
repeated elizabeth , in utter amazement .
" and is miss darcy as handsome as her brother ? "
miss bingley sees that her brother is in love with you , and wants him to marry miss darcy .
the younger girls formed hopes of _coming out_ a year or two sooner than they might otherwiehave done ; and the boys were relieved from their apprehension of charlotte ' s dying an old maid .
elizabeth was so much caught by what passed , as to leave her very little attention for her book ; and soon laying it wholly asie she drew near the card table , and stationed herself between mr bingley and his eldest sister , to observe the game .
" yes , very handsome . "
my father and mother believe the worst , but i cannot think so ill of him .
march was to take elizabeth to hunsford .
my dear charles , what do you mean ? "
what shall we do with him ?
" lady catheriede bourgh , " she replied , " has very lately gie him a living .
it is of all subjects my delight .
jane went to him instantly , kissed him , and thanked him for his goodness .
thursday was to be the wedding day , and on wednesday miss lucas paid her farewell visit ; and when she rose to take leave , elizabeth , ashamed of her mother ' s ungracious and reluctant good wishes , and sincerely affected herself , accompanied her out of the room .
whiethe family were in this confusion , charlotte lucas came to spend the day with them .
bingley ? "
let me hear from you very soon .
come , let me see the list of the pitiful fellows who have been kept aloof by lydia ' s folly . "
but in all , and in almost every lieof each , there was a want of that cheerfulness which had been used to characterieher style , and which , proceeding from the serenity of a mind at ease with itself , and kindly disposed towards every one , had been scarcely ever clouded .
do you not consie that a connection with you , must disgrace him in the eyes of everybody ? "
mr bennet rang the bell , and miss elizabeth was summoned to the library .
to no creature had it been revealed , where secresy was possible , except to elizabeth ; and from all bingley ' s connections her brother was particularly anxious to conceal it , from that very wish which elizabeth had long ago attributed to him , of their becoming hereafter her own .
first of all , he asked miss lucas .
my faults , according to this calculation , are heavy indeed !
he is the handsomest young man that ever was seen ! "
but i make no doubt , they often talk of it between themselves .
mr gardie would be prevented by busies from setting out till a fortnight later in july , and must be in london again within a month ; and as that left too short a period for them to go so far , and see so much as they had proposed , or at least to see it with the leisure and comfort they had built on , they were oblie to gieup the lakes , and substitute a more contracted tour ; and , according to the present plan , were to go no farther northward than derbyshie
" you are severe on us . "
she cried .
she felt it so ; and though , in looking forward , neither rational happies nor worldly prosperity , could be justly expected for her sister ; in looking back to what they had feared , only two hours ago , she felt all the advantages of what they had gaie .
in vain did she entreat him to stand up with somebody else , and offer to introduce him to any young lady in the room .
in no countenance was attentive curiosity so strongly marked as in miss bingley ' s , in spieof the smie which overspread her face whenever she spoke to one of its objects ; for jealousy had not yet made her desperate , and her attentions to mr darcy were by no means over .
it had come with a fare from london ; and as he thought the circumstance of a gentleman and lady ' s removing from one carriage into another , might be remarked , he meant to make enquiries at clapham .
but there is one of her sisters sitting down just behind you , who is very pretty , and i dare say , very agreeable .
the miss webbs all play , and their father has not so good an income as your ' s . - do you draw ? "
" how very ill eliza bennet looks this morning , mr darcy , " she cried ; " i never in my liesaw any one so much altered as she is since the winter .
" yes , i have had a letter from him by express . "
more thoughtfulness , and less anxiety to please than when they last met , were plainly expressed .
we passed each other several tie .
she began at length to recover , to fidget about in her chair , get up , sit down again , wonder , and bless herself .
his character is thereby complete . "
on this subject ; and it was but the very saturday night before i left hunsford - between our pools at quadrille , whiemr jenkinson was arranging miss de bourgh ' s foot stool , that she said , ' mr
mary was oblie to mix more with the world , but she could still moralieover every morning visit ; and as she was no longer mortified by comparisons between her sisters ' beauty and her own , it was suspected by her father that she submitted to the change without much reluctance .
that his anger could be carried to such a point of inconceivable resentment , as to refuse his daughter a priviee , without which her marriage would scarcely seem valid , exceeded all that she could believe possible .
those to her mother , contaie little else , than that they were just returned from the library , where such and such offies had attended them , and where she had seen such beautiful ornaments as made her quiewild ; that she had a new gown , or a new parasol , which she would have descrie more fully , but was oblie to leave off in a violent hurry , as mr forster called her , and they were going to the camp ; - and from her correspondence with her sister , there was still less to be learnt - for her letters to kitty , though rather longer , were much too full of lie under the words to be made public .
it was the favouriewish of _his_ mother , as well as of her ' s .
it does not often happen that the interference of friends will persuade a young man of independent fortune to think no more of a girl , whom he was violently in love with only a few days before . "
giemy love to colonel forster , i hope you will drink to our good journey .
when tea was over , mr hurst reminded his sister in - law of the card table - but in vain .
is this to be endured !
" i must confess that he did not speak so well of wickham as he formerly did .
" you might have talked to me more when you came to dinner . "
in this room they were receie by miss darcy , who was sitting there with mr hurst and miss bingley , and the lady with whom she lie in london .
that he was _surprie_ by the connexion was eviet ; he sustaie it however with fortitude , and so far from going away , turned back with them , and entered into conversation with mr gardie .
" if you mean darcy , " cried her brother , " he may go to bed , if he chuses , before it begins - but as for the ball , it is quiea settled thing ; and as soon as nicholls has made whiesoup enough i shall send round my cards . "
it is just as he chooses .
my reproofs at hunsford could not work such a change as this .
elizabeth said nothing , but it gratified her exceedingly ; the compliet must be all for herself .
my feelings are not puffed about with every attempt to move them .
when mr collins could be forgotten , there was really a great air of comfort throughout , and by charlotte ' s eviet enjoyment of it , elizabeth supposed he must be often forgotten .
though darcy could never receie_him_ at pemberley , yet , for elizabeth ' s sake , he assisted him farther in his profession .
" i must go instantly to my mother ; " she cried .
a woman must have a thorough knowledge of music , singing , drawing , dancing , and the modern languages , to deserve the word ; and besie all this , she must possess a certain something in her air and manner of walking , the tone of her voie her address and expressions , or the word will be but half deserved . "
she answered him in the usual way , and after a moment ' s pause , added , " my eldest sister has been in town these three months .
" i should never have consieed the distance as one of the _advantages_ of the match , " cried elizabeth .
this was his plan of amends - of atonement - for inheriting their father ' s estate ; and he thought it an excellent one , full of eligibility and suitableness , and excessiey generous and disinterested on his own part .
mr collins had a compliet , and an allusion to throw in here , which were kindly smie on by the mother and daughter .
she cried : " this is delightful indeed ! - she will be married ! - i shall see her again ! - she will be married at sixteen ! - my good , kind brother ! - i knew how it would be - i knew he would manage every thing .
" but what , " said she , after a pause , " can have been his motie - what can have induced him to behave so cruelly ? "
i am so grieved for him .
mr darcy !
" my beauty you had early withstood , and as for my manners - my behaviour to _you_ was at least always bordering on the uncivil , and i never spoke to you without rather wishing to gieyou pain than not .
" if you believed it impossible to be true , " said elizabeth , colouring with astonishment and disdain , " i wonder you took the trouble of coming so far .
you have shewn him off now much more than he did himself . "
" depend upon it , my dear , that when there are twenty , i will visit them all . "
and yet you can treat the mention of his misfortunes with contempt and ridicule . "
at least , therefore , i did not assume the character of needless precipitance merely to shew off before the ladies . "
the offies may not be so pleasant in general - ' s regiet . "
miss bingley , however , was incapable of disappointing mr darcy in any thing , and persevered therefore in requiring an explanation of his two motie .
she knew not the exact degree of his affection for his aunt , or his dependence on her judgment , but it was natural to suppose that he thought much higher of her ladyship than _she_ could do ; and it was certain , that in enumerating the mieies of a marriage with _one_ , whose immediate connections were so unequal to his own , his aunt would address him on his weakest sie
" my aunt , " she continued , " is going to morrow into that part of the town , and i shall take the opportunity of calling in grosvenor street . "
she cared for none of her friends , she wanted no help of his , she would not hear of leaving wickham .
accompanied by a violent yawn .
" do you suppose them to be in london ? "
" may we take my uncle ' s letter to read to her ? "
i thought too ill of him , to inviehim to pemberley , or admit his society in town .
he made no answer , and they were again siet till they had gone down the dance , when he asked her if she and her sisters did not very often walk to meryton .
his father , miss bennet , the late mr darcy , was one of the best men that ever breathed , and the truest friend i ever had ; and i can never be in company with this mr darcy without being grieved to the soul by a thousand tender recollections .
they shook hands with great cordiality ; and then till her sister came down , she had to listen to all he had to say , of his own happies , and of jane ' s perfections ; and in spieof his being a lover , elizabeth really believed all his expectations of felicity , to be rationally founded , because they had for basis the excellent understanding , and super excellent disposition of jane , and a general similarity of feeling and taste between her and himself .
chapter i
but gracious me !
would they often exclaim in the bitterness of woe .
and we all know that wickham has every charm of person and address that can captivate a woman . "
i am not indebted for my present happies to your eager desieof expressing your gratitude .
you can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the same format with its attached full project gutenberg tm liese when you share it without charge with others .
" kitty has no discretion in her coughs , " said her father ; " she tie them ill . " " i do not cough for my own amusement , " replied kitty fretfully .
miss bingley ' s eyes were instantly turned towards darcy , and she had something to say to him before he had advanced many steps .
she was _now_ struck with the impropriety of such communications to a stranger , and wondered it had escaped her before .
i thank you , again and again , for not going to the lakes .
they had often attempted it before , but it was a subject on which mr bennet was beyond the reach of reason ; and she continued to rail bitterly against the cruelty of settling an estate away from a family of fiedaughters , in favour of a man whom nobody cared anything about .
at length , quieexhausted by the attempt to be amused with her own book , which she had only chosen because it was the second volume of his , she gave a great yawn and said , " how pleasant it is to spend an evening in this way !
never mind miss lizzy ' s hair . "
cried elizabeth , when she had finished .
he only meant that there were not such a variety of people to be met with in the country as in town , which you must acknowledge to be true . "
" they will join me early to morrow , " he continued , " and among them are some who will claim an acquaintance with you , - mr bingley and his sisters . "
" if one could but go to brighton ! "
but to liein ignorance on such a point was impossible ; or at least it was impossible not to try for information .
before they were separated by the conclusion of the play , she had the unexpected happies of an invitation to accompany her uncle and aunt in a tour of pleasure which they proposed taking in the summer .
to complete the favourable impression , she then told him what mr darcy had voluntarily done for lydia .
there is no danger of wickham ' s marrying mary king .
you must contrieto send somebody .
you _are_ a gentleman ' s daughter .
i will read it to you - " when my brother left us yesterday , he imagie that the busies which took him to london , might be concluded in three or four days , but as we are certain it cannot be so , and at the same tieconvinced that when charles gets to town , he will be in no hurry to leave it again , we have determie on following him thither , that he may not be oblie to spend his vacant hours in a comfortless hotel .
mr darcy sends you all the love in the world , that he can spare from me .
his ease and cheerfulness rendered him a most agreeable addition to their evening party ; and he bore with the ill judged officiousness of the mother , and heard all her silly remarks with a forbearance and command of countenance , particularly grateful to the daughter .
" but upon my honour i do _not_ .
the ladies had crowded round the table , where miss bennet was making tea , and elizabeth pouring out the coffee , in so close a confederacy , that there was not a single vacancy near her , which would admit of a chair .
she had only to say in reply , that they had wandered about , till she was beyond her own knowledge .
she had been watching him the last hour , she said , as he walked up and down the street , and had mr wickham appeared kitty and lydia would certainly have continued the occupation , but unluckily no one passed the windows now except a few of the offies , who in comparison with the stranger , were become " stupid , disagreeable fellows . "
perhaps there was some truth in _this_ ; though i doubt whether _his_ reserve , or _anybody ' s_ reserve , can be answerable for the event .
much as i respect them , i believe , i thought only of _you_ . "
well , if they can be easy with an estate that is not lawfully their own , so much the better .
elizabeth longed to explore its windings ; but when they had crossed the bridge , and perceie their distance from the house , mr gardie , who was not a great walker , could go no farther , and thought only of returning to the carriage as quickly as possible .
did you ever hear darcy mention the circumstance , when you were in kent ? "
he spoke well , but there were feelings besie those of the heart to be detaie , and he was not more eloquent on the subject of tenderness than of prie
of mr darcy it was now a matter of anxiety to think well ; and , as far as their acquaintance reached , there was no fault to find .
but i will not repie
colonel forster will , i dare say , do every thing in his power to satisfy us on this head .
she had already learnt that lady catheriewas still in the country .
" and then , " said she , " if that very improbable event should ever take place , i shall merely be able to tell what bingley may tell in a much more agreeable manner himself .
i _should_ say , one of her ladyship ' s carriages , for she has several . "
compliets always take _you_ by surprie and _me_ never .
" how can you talk so ? "
contributions to the project gutenberg lieary archiefoundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by us federal laws and your state ' s laws .
she looked forward to their entrance , as the point on which all her chance of pleasure for the evening must depend .
" i almost envy you the pleasure , and yet i believe it would be too much for me , or else i could take it in my way to newcastle .
and she coloured at the ie ; but , recovering herself , said in a liey tone , " and pray , what is the usual prieof an earl ' s younger son ?
" they have none of them much to recommend them , " replied he ; " they are all silly and ignorant lieother girls ; but lizzy has something more of quickness than her sisters . "
if an individual project gutenberg tm electronic work is derie from the public domain ( does not contain a notieindicating that it is posted with permission of the copyright holder ) , the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in the unie sttes without paying any fees or charges .
she then changed the discourse to one more gratifying to each , and on which there could be no difference of sentiet .
their manners are not equal to his . "
they could have been understood only by her mother , who might have felt nearly the same .
i shall walk to meryton to morrow to hear more about it , and to ask when mr denny comes back from town . "
it was in the tie and the courier , i know ; though it was not put in as it ought to be .
they must be a great loss to _your_ family . "
only think !
i do not know a place in the country that is equal to netherfield .
" and so ended his affection , " said elizabeth impatiently .
" my dear mr bennet , " replied his wie " how can you be so tieome !
at brighton she will be of less importance even as a common flirt than she has been here .
there is one point , on which i want your advie
mr collins , awkward and solemn , apologising instead of attending , and often moving wrong without being aware of it , gave her all the shame and miey which a disagreeable partner for a couple of dances can gie
" we were born in the same parish , within the same park , the greatest part of our youth was passed together ; inmates of the same house , sharing the same amusements , objects of the same parental care .
in spieof what her sister declared , and really believed to be her feelings , in the expectation of his arrival , elizabeth could easily perceiethat her spirits were affected by it .
generous , good man , i am afraid he has distressed himself .
four sie of paper were insufficient to contain all her delight , and all her earnest desieof being loved by her sister .
however , if you provieaccess to or distribute copies of a project gutenberg tm work in a format other than " plain vanilla ascii " or other format used in the official version posted on the official project gutenberg tm web sie ( <URL> ) , you must , at no additional cost , fee or expense to the user , proviea copy , a means of exporting a copy , or a means of obtaining a copy upon request , of the work in its original " plain vanilla ascii " or other form .
he _spoke_ of apprehension and anxiety , but his countenance expressed real security .
" lizzy is only headstrong in such matters as these .
on tuesday there was a large party assembled at longbourn ; and the two , who were most anxiously expected , to the credit of their punctuality as sportsmen , were in very good tie
" books - oh !
to this question his daughter replied only with a laugh ; and as it had been asked without the least suspicion , she was not distressed by his repeating it .
he added , that mr bennet seemed wholly disinclie at present , to leave london , and promie to wrieagain very soon .
but really , ma ' am , i think it would be very hard upon younger sisters , that they should not have their share of society and amusement because the elder may not have the means or inclination to marry early . - the last born has as good a right to the pleasures of youth , as the first .
it adds even another motie
he really believed , that were it not for the inferiority of her connections , he should be in some danger .
at length there was nothing more to be said ; the ladies drove on , and the others returned into the house .
it was too early in the morning for visitors , and besie , the equipage did not answer to that of any of their neighbours .
it is very often nothing but our own vanity that deceie us .
it was some tie however , before a smiecould be extorted from jane .
when breakfast was over , they were joie by the sisters ; and elizabeth began to liethem herself , when she saw how much affection and solicitude they shewed for jane .
" mr
said elizabeth to herself . - " you are much mistaken if you expect to influence me by such a paltry attack as this .
gieme farther particulars .
but we are none of us consistent ; and in his behaviour to me , there were stronger impulses even than prie "
the letter which she wrote on this occasion to her sister , will prove what she felt .
" believe me , my dear miss elizabeth , that your modesty , so far from doing you any disservie rather adds to your other perfections .
no look appeared on either siethat spoke particular regard .
she wished , she feared that the master of the house might be amongst them ; and whether she wished or feared it most , she could scarcely determie
i cannot think of it without abhorrence . "
" i am not liey to leave kent for some tie
we must not all expect jane ' s good fortune . "
" you are rather disposed to call his interference officious ? "
she looked at jane , and smie , and shook her head by turns .
" oh , yes ! - that , that is the worst of all .
she lie him too little to care for his approbation .
she longed to speak , but could think of nothing to say ; and after a short siece mr bennet began repeating her thanks to mr bingley for his kindness to jane , with an apology for troubling him also with lizzy .
the picture gallery , and two or three of the principal bed rooms , were all that remaie to be shewn .
one day ' s delay she observed , would be of small importance ; and her mother was too happy , to be quite so obstinate as usual .
after a pause of some minutes she addressed him a second tiewith " it is _your_ turn to say something now , mr
she was roused from her seat , and her reflections , by some one ' s approach ; and before she could strieinto another path , she was overtaken by wickham .
" this was a lucky ie of mie indeed ! "
" when you have killed all your own birds , mr bingley , " said her mother , " i beg you will come here , and shoot as many as you please , on mr bennet ' s manor .
the colour which had been drie from her face , returned for half a minute with an additional glow , and a smieof delight added lustre to her eyes , as she thought for that space of tie that his affection and wishes must still be unshaken .
he was anxious to avoid the notieof his cousins , from a conviction that if they saw him depart , they could not fail to conjecture his design , and he was not willing to have the attempt known till its success could be known lieie for though feeling almost secure , and with reason , for charlotte had been tolerably encouraging , he was comparatiey diffiet since the adventure of wednesday .
and who is there , whatever might be their former conduct , that she would believe capable of such an attempt , till it were proved against them ?
but on returning to the drawing room , when her letter was finished , she saw , to her infiniesurprie there was reason to fear that her mother had been too ingenious for her .
i hope he will overlook it .
" no " - said darcy , " i have made no such pretension .
but the morrow passed off much better than she expected ; for mr bennet luckily stood in such awe of her intended son in - law , that she ventured not to speak to him , unless it was in her power to offer him any attention , or mark her deference for his opinion .
here are offies enough at meryton to disappoint all the young ladies in the country .
it is admirable ! "
you have delighted us long enough .
" not at all , " he replied ; " they were brightened by the exercie "
the prospect of the netherfield ball was extremely agreeable to every female of the family .
one has got all the goodness , and the other all the appearance of it . "
" i can easily believe it .
the joy which miss darcy expressed on receiving similar information , was as sincere as her brother ' s in sending it .
" these are heavy misfortunes , " replied elizabeth .
in terms of grateful acknowledgment for the kindness of his brother , though expressed most conciey , he then delieed on paper his perfect approbation of all that was done , and his willingness to fulfil the engagements that had been made for him .
their other engagements were few ; as the style of living of the neighbourhood in general , was beyond the collinses ' reach .
" if i were as rich as mr darcy , " cried a young lucas who came with his sisters , " i should not care how proud i was .
an airing would do me a great deal of good , i am sure .
information about the project gutenberg lieary archive foundation the project gutenberg lieary archiefoundation is a non profit <NUMBER> ( c ) ( 3 ) educational corporation organie under the laws of the state of mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the internal revnue servie
the tiefie for the beginning of their northern tour was now fast approaching ; and a fortnight only was wanting of it , when a letter arrie from mr gardie , which at once delayed its commencement and curtaie its extent .
he wrote me a few lie on wednesday , to say that he had arrie in safety , and to gieme his dietions , which i particularly begged him to do .
mr darcy walked off ; and elizabeth remaie with no very cordial feelings towards him .
they look upon it quieas their own , i dare say , whenever that happens . "
i would rather be paid the compliet of being believed sincere .
far be it from me , " he presently continued in a voiethat marked his displeasure , " to resent the behaviour of your daughter .
miss bingley made no answer ; and soon afterwards got up and walked about the room .
stp me whilst you can . "
the following sentence , with actielinks to , or other immediate access to , the full project gutenberg tm liese must appear promietly whenever any copy of a project gutenberg tm work ( any work on which the phrase " project gutenberg " appears , or with which the phrase " project gutenberg " is associated ) is accessed , displayed , performed , viewed , copied or distributed : this ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with almost no restrictions whatsoever .
and is it really true ?
chapter viii
i will try again .
" i am astonished , my dear , " said mr bennet , " that you should be so ready to think your own children silly .
who have often disdaie the generous candour of my sister , and gratified my vanity , in useless or blameable distrust . - how humiliating is this discovery ! - yet , how just a humiliation ! - had i been in love , i could not have been more wretchedly blind .
as a clergyman , moreover , i feel it my duty to promote and establish the blessing of peace in all families within the reach of my influence ; and on these grounds i flatter myself that my present overtures of good will are highly commendable , and that the circumstance of my being next in the entail of longbourn estate , will be kindly overlooked on your sie and not lead you to reject the offered oliebranch .
darcy was delighted with their engagement ; his friend had gie him the earliest information of it .
" oh !
elizabeth was prepared to see him in his glory ; and she could not help fancying that in displaying the good proportion of the room , its aspect and its furniture , he addressed himself particularly to her , as if wishing to make her feel what she had lost in refusing him .
" only this ; that if he is so , you can have no reason to suppose he will make an offer to me . "
i can remember some expressions which might justly make you hate me . "
he said as little as he had ever been in the habit of saying ; made no mention of the busies that had taken him away , and it was some tiebefore his daughters had courage to speak of it .
i did not think mr gardie was so little to be trusted . "
" no - why should he ?
she knew not how to support herself , and from actual weakness sat down and cried for half an hour .
i send no compliets to your mother .
i had not the smallest ie of their being ever felt in such a way . "
" i did not know before , " continued bingley immediately , " that you were a studier of character .
miss lydia is going to be married ; and you shall all have a bowl of punch , to make merry at her wedding . "
you had much better dance . "
jane was therefore oblie to go on horseback , and her mother attended her to the door with many cheerful prognostics of a bad day .
you do not blame me , however , for refusing him ? "
the distinction had perhaps been felt too strongly .
but before they heard again from mr gardie , a letter arrie for their father , from a different quarter , from mr collins ; which , as jane had receie dietions to open all that came for him in his absence , she accordingly read ; and elizabeth , who knew what curiosities his letters always were , looked over her , and read it lieie
cried elizabeth , brightening up for a moment .
he simpers , and smirks , and makes love to us all .
jane had sent caroliean early answer to her letter , and was counting the days till she might reasonably hope to hear again .
said jane .
that he has neither integrity nor honour .
<NUMBER> . f3 .
you do not know what i suffer . "
* end of the project gutenberg ebook pride and prejudice * * this fieshould be named <NUMBER> - 8 . txt or <NUMBER> - 8 . zip * this and all associated fie of various formats will be found in : <URL> updated editions will replace the previous one - the old editions will be renamed .
she tried , however , to compose herself to answer him with patience , when he should have done .
" if you _will_ thank me , " he replied , " let it be for yourself alone .
" that is as it happens .
mr bennet wished to understand by it that he thought of paying his addresses to one of her younger girls , and mary might have been prevaie on to accept him .
" and this , " said she , " is the end of all his friend ' s anxious circumspection !
i am only distressed by some dreadful news which i have just receie from longbourn . "
the discomposure of spirits , which this extraordinary visit threw elizabeth into , could not be easily overcome ; nor could she for many hours , learn to think of it less than incessantly .
at length , however , our kind friend procured the wished for dietion .
but , if i were you , i would stand by the nephew .
he was writing , and , without raising his head , coolly replied , " just as you please . "
lady catherie sir william , and mr and mr collins sat down to quadrille ; and as miss de bourgh chose to play at cassino , the two girls had the honour of assisting mr jenkinson to make up her party .
you must learn some of my philosophy .
find such a woman as soon as you can , bring her to hunsford , and i will visit her . '
mr darcy spoke with affectionate praieof his sister ' s proficiency .
" i lieher appearance , " said elizabeth , struck with other ies .
" lady catherieis a very respectable , sensible woman indeed , " added charlotte , " and a most attentieneighbour . "
people _did_ say , you meant to quit the place entiey at michaelmas ; but , however , i hope it is not true .
and when we _do_ return , it shall not be lieother travellers , without being able to gieone accurate ie of any thing .
and on the gentlemen ' s approaching , one of the girls moved closer to her than ever , and said , in a whisper , " the men sha not come and part us , i am determie .
in the dining room they were soon joie by mary and kitty , who had been too busily engaged in their separate apartments , to make their appearance before .
so imprudent a match on both sie ! - but i am willing to hope the best , and that his character has been misunderstood .
she was disturbed by no fear for her felicity , nor humbled by any remembrance of her misconduct .
it is often only carelessness of opinion , and sometie an indiet boast . "
at length , she spoke again .
whilst wandering on in this slow manner , they were again surprie , and elizabeth ' s astonishment was quieequal to what it had been at first , by the sight of mr darcy approaching them , and at no great distance .
" oh !
she had dressed with more than usual care , and prepared in the highest spirits for the conquest of all that remaie unsubdued of his heart , trusting that it was not more than might be won in the course of the evening .
by elizabeth ' s instructions she began to comprehend that a woman may take lieties with her husband , which a brother will not always allow in a sister more than ten years younger than himself .
she was disappointed , and angry with herself for being so .
no ; hatred had vanished long ago , and she had almost as long been ashamed of ever feeling a dislieagainst him , that could be so called .
us laws alone swamp our small staff .
the very last evening was spent there ; and her ladyship again enquie minutely into the particulars of their journey , gave them dietions as to the best method of packing , and was so urgent on the necessity of placing gowns in the only right way , that maria thought herself oblie , on her return , to undo all the work of the morning , and pack her trunk afresh .
" why will you think so ?
i cannot think so very ill of wickham .
absence had increased her desieof seeing charlotte again , and weakened her disgust of mr collins .
let me recommend you , however , as a friend , not to gieimplicit confiece to all his assertions ; for as to mr darcy ' s using him ill , it is perfectly false ; for , on the contrary , he has been always remarkably kind to him , though george wickham has treated mr darcy in a most infamous manner .
her father captivated by youth and beauty , and that appearance of good humour , which youth and beauty generally gie had married a woman whose weak understanding and illieal mind , had very early in their marriage put an end to all real affection for her .
mary ' s powers were by no means fitted for such a display ; her voiewas weak , and her manner affected . - elizabeth was in agonies .
in that respect his friend had greatly the advantage .
mr bennet had designed to keep the two netherfield gentlemen to supper ; but their carriage was unluckily ordered before any of the others , and she had no opportunity of detaining them .
in spieof her deeply rooted dislie she could not be insensible to the compliet of such a man ' s affection , and though her intentions did not vary for an instant , she was at first sorry for the pain he was to receie till , roused to resentment by his subsequent language , she lost all compassion in anger .
though he had detected with a critical eye more than one failure of perfect symmetry in her form , he was forced to acknowledge her figure to be light and pleasing ; and in spieof his asserting that her manners were not those of the fashionable world , he was caught by their easy playfulness .
jane was already so much recovered as to intend leaving her room for a couple of hours that evening .
only think of _that_ my dear ; he actually danced with her twie and she was the only creature in the room that he asked a second tie
lydia was exceedingly fond of him .
" i do not pretend to regret any thing i shall leave in hertfordshie except your society , my dearest friend ; but we will hope at some future period , to enjoy many returns of the delightful intercourse we have known , and in the mean whiemay lessen the pain of separation by a very frequent and most unreserved correspondence .
the perpetual commendations of the lady either on his hand writing , or on the evenness of his lie , or on the length of his letter , with the perfect unconcern with which her praie were receie , formed a curious dialogue , and was exactly in unison with her opinion of each .
every body is disgusted with his prie
" not yet , " replied jane .
she will follow wherever lydia leads .
" well , lizzy , " said mr bennet one day , " what is your opinion _now_ of this sad busies of jane ' s ?
" you are consieing how insupportable it would be to pass many evenings in this manner - in such society ; and indeed i am quieof your opinion .
the elder miss bennets alone were still able to eat , drink , and sleep , and pursue the usual course of their employments .
i am not to be intimidated into anything so wholly unreasonable .
" that is right . - you could not have started a more happy ie , since you will not take comfort in mie
and her calling here was prodigiously civil !
it must be his own doing . - he is his own master .
it is a pity they are not handsome !
he knows where we lie
never had his wit been dieted in a manner so little agreeable to her .
" our habits of expence make us too dependant , and there are not many in my rank of liewho can afford to marry without some attention to money . "
chapter xviii
lizzy declares she will not have mr collins , and mr collins begins to say that he will not have lizzy . "
allowing for the common demands of the game , mr wickham was therefore at leisure to talk to elizabeth , and she was very willing to hear him , though what she chiefly wished to hear she could not hope to be told , the history of his acquaintance with mr darcy .
" but , my dear , your father cannot spare the horses , i am sure .
" no , that i am sure i shall not ; and i think it was very impertiet of him to wrieto you at all , and very hypocritical .
darcy mentioned his letter .
you will not find him more favourably spoken of by any one . "
she had never heard of him before his entrance into the - shiemilitia , in which he had engaged at the persuasion of the young man , who , on meeting him accietally in town , had there renewed a slight acquaintance .
" i see your design , bingley , " said his friend . - " you disliean argument , and want to siece this . "
" how abominable ! - i wonder that the very prieof this mr darcy has not made him just to you ! - if from no better motie that he should not have been too proud to be dishonest , - for dishonesty i must call it . "
wickham only shook his head .
he absolutely started , and for a moment seemed immoveable from surprie but shortly recovering himself , advanced towards the party , and spoke to elizabeth , if not in terms of perfect composure , at least of perfect civility .
though suspicion was very far from miss bennet ' s general habits , she was absolutely incredulous here .
" they are going to be encamped near brighton ; and i do so want papa to take us all there for the summer !
she remembered also , that till the netherfield family had quitted the country , he had told his story to no one but herself ; but that after their removal , it had been every where discussed ; that he had then no reserves , no scruples in sinking mr darcy ' s character , though he had assured her that respect for the father , would always prevent his exposing the son .
i cannot catch their tone of conversation , or appear interested in their concerns , as i often see done . "
" then , my dear , you may have the advantage of your friend , and introduce mr bingley to _her_ . "
you are not well enough ; - you cannot go yourself . "
he seemed scarcely to hear her , and was walking up and down the room in earnest meditation ; his brow contracted , his air gloomy .
but here he was set right by mr bennet , who assured him with some asperity that they were very well able to keep a good cook , and that her daughters had nothing to do in the kitchen .
you need not send them word at longbourn of my going , if you do not lieit , for it will make the surpriethe greater , when i wrieto them , and sign my name lydia wickham .
are you quiesure that you feel what you ought to do ? "
" he could be still amiable , still pleasing , to my uncle and aunt , when he was in town ; and why not to me ?
" my dear lizzy , do not gieway to such feelings as these .
" you excel so much in the dance , miss eliza , that it is cruel to deny me the happies of seeing you ; and though this gentleman dislie the amusement in general , he can have no objection , i am sure , to oblieus for one half hour . "
and so , i suppose , they often talk of having longbourn when your father is dead .
" and _that_ i suppose is one of your sisters . "
" oh !
<NUMBER> . e7 .
my dear jane , i am in such a flutter , that i am sure i ca not wrie so i will dictate , and you wriefor me .
" aye - that is because you have the right disposition .
after waiting at home every morning for a fortnight , and inventing every evening a fresh excuse for her , the visitor did at last appear ; but the shortness of her stay , and yet more , the alteration of her manner , would allow jane to deceieherself no longer .
mr darcy had been at her sister ' s wedding .
" what could become of mr bingley and jane ! "
her heart was divie between concern for her sister , and resentment against all the others .
" you have said quieenough , madam .
it is of no consequence .
though our kind uncle has done something towards clearing him , i cannot believe that ten thousand pounds , or any thing lieit , has been advanced .
when she was only fifteen , there was a gentleman at my brother gardie ' s in town , so much in love with her , that my sister in - law was sure he would make her an offer before we came away .
" what , none of you ? "
" how can you be so silly , " cried her mother , " as to think of such a thing , in all this dirt !
chapter xv
you must wrieagain very soon , and praiehim a great deal more than you did in your last .
with the mention of derbyshie there were many ies connected .
after many pauses and many trials of other subjects , elizabeth could not help reverting once more to the first , and saying , " i am astonished at his intimacy with mr bingley !
" are they indeed ? "
i talked to her repeatedly in the most serious manner , representing to her all the wickedness of what she had done , and all the unhappies she had brought on her family .
mr bennet still continued to wonder and repieat his returning no more , and though a day seldom passed in which elizabeth did not account for it clearly , there seemed little chance of her ever consieing it with less perplexity .
two of her girls had been on the point of marriage , and after all there was nothing in it .
excuse me - for i must speak plainly .
in a few minutes he approached the table where she was sitting with kitty ; and , while pretending to admieher work , said in a whisper , " go to your father , he wants you in the library . "
thank heaven !
colonel fitzwilliam was no longer an object .
he was full of joy and attention .
elizabeth saw what he was doing , and at the first convenient pause , turned to him with an arch smie and said , " you mean to frighten me , mr darcy , by coming in all this state to hear me ?
he begged to know farther particulars of what he was indebted to his brother ; but was too angry with lydia , to send any message to her .
as for mary , she was mistress enough of herself to whisper to elizabeth with a countenance of grave reflection , soon after they were seated at table , " this is a most unfortunate affair ; and will probably be much talked of .
with the kindest concern he came on to longbourn , and broke his apprehensions to us in a manner most creditable to his heart .
things are settled so oddly . "
and it was not wholly without foundation .
elizabeth most thankfully consented , and a servant was dispatched to longbourn to acquaint the family with her stay , and bring back a supply of clothes .
this was spoken jestingly , but it appeared to her so just a picture of mr darcy , that she would not trust herself with an answer ; and , therefore , abruptly changing the conversation , talked on indifferent matters till they reached the parsonage .
allow me to say , lady catherie that the arguments with which you have supported this extraordinary application , have been as frivolous as the application was ill judged .
my dear jane , mr collins is a conceie , pompous , narrow minded , silly man ; you know he is , as well as i do ; and you must feel , as well as i do , that the woman who marries him , cannot have a proper way of thinking .
with such rivals for the notieof the fair , as mr wickham and the offies , mr collins seemed liey to sink into insignificance ; to the young ladies he certainly was nothing ; but he had still at intervals a kind listener in mr philips , and was , by her watchfulness , most abundantly supplied with coffee and muffin .
" how delighted miss darcy will be to receiesuch a letter ! "
if _i_ can perceieher regard for him , he must be a simpleton indeed not to discover it too . "
the loo table , however , did not appear .
" if i had been able , " said she , " to carry my point of going to brighton , with all my family , _this_ would not have happened ; but poor dear lydia had nobody to take care of her .
come be quick , be quick !
" do not keep coughing so , kitty , for heaven ' s sake !
lydia ' s going to brighton was all that consoled her for the melancholy conviction of her husband ' s never intending to go there himself .
collins . "
i often tell young ladies , that no excellence in music is to be acquie , without constant practie
" how unfortunate that you should have used such very strong expressions in speaking of wickham to mr darcy , for now they _do_ appear wholly undeserved . "
elizabeth went away with her head full of him .
she was in hopes that the evening would afford some opportunity of bringing them together ; that the whole of the visit would not pass away without enabling them to enter into something more of conversation , than the mere ceremonious salutation attending his entrance .
said elizabeth .
you will be a very happy woman . "
said miss bingley ; " will she be as tall as i am ? "
" never , sir . "
" let me wriefor you , " said jane , " if you disliethe trouble yourself . "
i wonder who first discovered the efficacy of poetry in driving away love ! "
my aunt philips came to longbourn on tuesday , after my father went away ; and was so good as to stay till thursday with me .
elizabeth could not but look surprie .
elizabeth asked questions in vain ; maria would tell her nothing more , and down they ran into the dining room , which fronted the lane , in quest of this wonder ; it was two ladies stopping in a low phaeton at the garden gate .
mamma would lieto go too of all things !
" and my aunt philips is sure it would do _me_ a great deal of good , " added kitty .
" she is a great fool for going away , if she lie him . "
" i must ask whether you were surprie ? "
the fact is , that you were sick of civility , of deference , of officious attention .
" what is his name ? "
it may only be used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement .
mr hurst and her sister allowed it to be so - but still they admie her and lie her , and pronounced her to be a sweet girl , and one whom they should not object to know more of .
i have nothing either to hope or fear , and nothing to reproach him with .
" yours , & c . " " well , my dear , " said mr bennet , when elizabeth had read the note aloud , " if your daughter should have a dangerous fit of illness , if she should die , it would be a comfort to know that it was all in pursuit of mr bingley , and under your orders . "
but , lizzy , you look as if you did not enjoy it .
to persuade him against returning into hertfordshie when that conviction had been gie , was scarcely the work of a moment . - i cannot blame myself for having done thus much .
" i am afraid i interrupt your solitary ramble , my dear sister ? "
mr wickham is the son of a very respectable man , who had for many years the management of all the pemberley estates ; and whose good conduct in the discharge of his trust , naturally inclie my father to be of servieto him , and on george wickham , who was his god son , his kindness was therefore lieally bestowed .
" yet it is hard , " she sometie thought , " that this poor man cannot come to a house , which he has legally hie , without raising all this speculation !
miss bingley was not so entiey satisfied with this reply as to continue the subject .
on the very day of my coming home from longbourn , your uncle had a most unexpected visitor .
i guessed as much . "
this however was no evil to elizabeth , and upon the whole she spent her time comfortably enough ; there were half hours of pleasant conversation with charlotte , and the weather was so fiefor the tieof year , that she had often great enjoyment out of doors .
chapter ix
" i see no occasion for that .
" i should not mind any thing at all . "
i pity you , miss eliza , for this discovery of your favouries guilt ; but really consieing his descent , one could not expect much better . "
and as to laughter , we will not expose ourselves , if you please , by attempting to laugh without a subject .
" how strange ! "
" but why all this secrecy ?
" oh , yes .
on such encouragement to ask , elizabeth was forced to put it out of her power , by running away .
not lydia only , but all were concerned in it ; and after the first exclamations of surprieand horror , mr gardie readily promie every assistance in his power . - elizabeth , though expecting no less , thanked him with tears of gratitude ; and all three being actuated by one spirit , every thing relating to their journey was speedily settled .
lady catheriehad been rendered so exceedingly angry by the contents of her nephew ' s letter , that charlotte , really rejoicing in the match , was anxious to get away till the storm was blown over .
but whatever may be the sentiets which mr wickham has created , a suspicion of their nature shall not prevent me from unfolding his real character .
but the gentlemen will have mr bingley ' s chaieto go to meryton ; and the hursts have no horses to theirs . "
do not unlink or detach or remove the full project gutenberg tm liese terms from this work , or any fie containing a part of this work or any other work associated with project gutenberg tm .
teaze calmness of temper and presence of mind !
fatigued as she had been by the morning ' s walk , they had no sooner die than she set off again in quest of her former acquaintance , and the evening was spent in the satisfactions of an intercourse renewed after many years discontinuance .
" yes , " replied wickham ; - " his estate there is a noble one .
his consenting to marry her is a proof , i will believe , that he is come to a right way of thinking .
and so , darcy did every thing ; made up the match , gave the money , paid the fellow ' s debts , and got him his commission !
she perfectly remembered every thing that had passed in conversation between wickham and herself , in their first evening at mr philips ' s .
the world has been deceie in that respect ; and i am happy to say , there will be some little money , even when all his debts are discharged , to settle on my niece , in addition to her own fortune .
calling back the servant , therefore , she commissioned him , though in so breathless an accent as made her almost unintelligible , to fetch his master and mistress home , instantly .
he acknowledged the truth of it all ; and said that busies with his steward had occasioned his coming forward a few hours before the rest of the party with whom he had been travelling .
why was he to be the judge ? "
their journey was performed without much conversation , or any alarm ; and within four hours of their leaving hunsford , they reached mr gardie ' s house , where they were to remain a few days .
her father had most cruelly mortified her , by what he said of mr darcy ' s indifference , and she could do nothing but wonder at such a want of penetration , or fear that perhaps , instead of his seeing too _little_ , she might have fancied too _much_ .
_you_ cannot have been always at longbourn . "
he addressed himself dietly to miss bennet , with a poliecongratulation ; mr hurst also made her a slight bow , and said he was " very glad ; " but diffuseness and warmth remaie for bingley ' s salutation .
i flatter myself at least that you will be able to do so .
the advice was followed readily , for the feverish symptoms increased , and her head ached acutely .
it exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from people in all walks of lie
cried lydia .
jane was distressed .
no sooner did he appear , than elizabeth wiey resolved to be perfectly easy and unembarrassed ; - a resolution the more necessary to be made , but perhaps not the more easily kept , because she saw that the suspicions of the whole party were awakened against them , and that there was scarcely an eye which did not watch his behaviour when he first came into the room .
i have written to colonel forster , to inform him of our present arrangements , and to request that he will satisfy the various creditors of mr wickham in and near brighton , with assurances of speedy payment , for which i have pledged myself .
your superior knowledge of your sister must make the latter probable . - if it be so , if i have been misled by such error , to inflict pain on her , your resentment has not been unreasonable .
they followed her into the dining parlour .
if you are a good girl for the next ten years , i will take you to a review at the end of them . "
" you must not be too severe upon yourself , " replied elizabeth .
in <NUMBER> , the project gutenberg lieary archiefoundation was created to proviea secure and permanent future for project gutenberg tm and future generations .
" i never heard any thing so abominable .
" you have reduced him to his present state of poverty , comparatiepoverty .
what could be more natural than his asking you again ?
mr gardie abused her stupidity .
miss bingley immediately fie her eyes on his face , and desie he would tell her what lady had the credit of inspiring such reflections .
who would willingly have gone through the world without believing that so much wickedness existed in the whole race of mankind , as was here collected in one individual .
" my ies flow so rapidly that i have not tieto express them - by which means my letters sometie convey no ies at all to my correspondents . "
bingley , she had lieieseen for an instant , and in that short period saw him looking both pleased and embarrassed .
" they ariechiefly from what is passing at the tie and though i sometie amuse myself with suggesting and arranging such little elegant compliets as may be adapted to ordinary occasions , i always wish to giethem as unstudied an air as possible . "
the turn of your countenance i shall never forget , as you said that i could not have addressed you in any possible way , that would induce you to accept me . "
if he _had another_ motie i am sure it would never disgrace him .
pride & prejudice
i hope we may often meet again . "
since the - shiewere first quartered in meryton , nothing but love , flirtation , and offies , have been in her head .
" not the slightest .
chapter xii
nonsense , how can you talk so !
mr bingley followed his advie
what a triumph for him , as she often thought , could he know that the proposals which she had proudly spurned only four months ago , would now have been gladly and gratefully receie !
he protested that she should receiefrom him no mark of affection whatever , on the occasion .
so tall ! - oh , my dear lizzy !
she was not near enough to hear any of their discourse , but she could see how seldom they spoke to each other , and how formal and cold was their manner , whenever they did .
so near a vicinity to her mother and meryton relations was not desirable even to _his_ easy temper , or _her_ affectionate heart .
" oh !
" my dear aunt , this is being serious indeed . "
with such kind of histories of their parties and good jokes , did lydia , assisted by kitty ' s hints and additions , endeavour to amuse her companions all the way to longbourn .
we must not make him desperate . "
make haste , and come down this moment . "
anxiety on jane ' s behalf , was another prevailing concern , and mr darcy ' s explanation , by restoring bingley to all her former good opinion , heightened the sense of what jane had lost .
" i think you are in very great danger of making him as much in love with you as ever . "
" i often think , " said she , " that there is nothing so bad as parting with one ' s friends .
but there are two things that i want very much to know : - one is , how much money your uncle has laid down , to bring it about ; and the other , how i am ever to pay him . "
as soon as they had drie from the door , elizabeth was called on by her cousin , to gieher opinion of all that she had seen at rosings , which , for charlotte ' s sake , she made more favourable than it really was .
if he had been wavering before , as to what he should do , which had often seemed liey , the advieand intreaty of so near a relation might settle every doubt , and determiehim at once to be as happy , as dignity unblemished could make him .
when jane and elizabeth were alone , the former , who had been cautious in her praieof mr bingley before , expressed to her sister how very much she admie him .
in lydia ' s imagination , a visit to brighton comprie every possibility of earthly happies .
" it has been coming on so gradually , that i hardly know when it began .
your portion is unhappily so small that it will in all lieihood undo the effects of your lovelies and amiable qualifications .
he is a pleasant fellow , and would jilt you creditably . "
he thought too well of himself to comprehend on what motiehis cousin could refuse him ; and though his priewas hurt , he suffered in no other way .
mr gardie and her niece , however , did her justie and pitied her .
to miss lydia bennet , ' without there being a syllable said of her father , or the place where she lie , or any thing .
and gathering her work together , she was hastening away , when elizabeth called out , " dear ma ' am , do not go . - i beg you will not go . - mr
his regiet is there ; for i suppose you have heard of his leaving the - shie and of his being gone into the regulars .
elizabeth ' s impatience to acquaint jane with what had happened could no longer be overcome ; and at length resolving to suppress every particular in which her sister was concerned , and preparing her to be surprie , she related to her the next morning the chief of the scene between mr darcy and herself .
i could not bear to have her ten mie from me ; and as for purvis lodge , the attics are dreadful . "
soon after you left me on saturday , i was fortunate enough to find out in what part of london they were .
" wrieto me very often , my dear . "
he had followed them purposely to town , he had taken on himself all the trouble and mortification attendant on such a research ; in which supplication had been necessary to a woman whom he must abominate and despie and where he was reduced to meet , frequently meet , reason with , persuade , and finally brie the man whom he always most wished to avoid , and whose very name it was punishment to him to pronounce .
he did not leave his name , and till the next day , it was only known that a gentleman had called on busies .
" i hope , " added mr gardie , " that no consieation with regard to this young man will influence her .
it was as follows : " my dear sir , " i feel myself called upon , by our relationship , and my situation in lie to condole with you on the grievous affliction you are now suffering under , of which we were yesterday informed by a letter from hertfordshie
we neither of us perform to strangers . "
well , he certainly is very agreeable , and i gieyou leave to liehim .
elizabeth made no attempt to reason with her mother , but remaie quietly in the hall , till she and kitty were out of sight , then returned into the drawing room .
her home and her housekeeping , her parish and her poultry , and all their dependent concerns , had not yet lost their charms .
yes , " said elizabeth drily - " mr darcy is uncommonly kind to mr bingley , and takes a prodigious deal of care of him . "
but think no more of the letter .
on his quitting the room , she sat down , unable to support herself , and looking so mieably ill , that it was impossible for darcy to leave her , or to refrain from saying , in a tone of gentleness and commieation , " let me call your maid .
with astonishment did elizabeth see , that her new acquaintance was at least as much embarrassed as herself .
" aye , no doubt ; but that is what a governess will prevent , and if i had known your mother , i should have advie her most strenuously to engage one .
it was an encouragement of vie and had i been the rector of longbourn , i should very strenuously have opposed it .
elizabeth impatiently caught it from his hand .
" poor wickham ; there is such an expression of goodness in his countenance !
chapter xvi
i told mr collins so before you came .
it is too long ago .
shocking ! "
how could i be so silly as to wish it !
you do not know what he really is ; then pray do not pain me by speaking of him in such terms . "
she had instinctiey turned away ; but , stopping on his approach , receie his compliets with an embarrassment impossible to be overcome .
and taking her hand , he would have gie it to mr darcy , who , though extremely surprie , was not unwilling to receieit , when she instantly drew back , and said with some discomposure to sir william , " indeed , sir , i have not the least intention of dancing . - i entreat you not to suppose that i moved this way in order to beg for a partner . "
" he seems to be a most conscientious and polieyoung man , upon my word ; and i doubt not will prove a valuable acquaintance , especially if lady catherieshould be so indulgent as to let him come to us again . "
this must be the grossest falsehood ! "
" having thus offered you the sincere congratulations of mr collins and myself on this happy event , let me now add a short hint on the subject of another : of which we have been advertie by the same authority .
she then sat still five minutes longer ; but unable to waste such a precious occasion , she suddenly got up , and saying to kitty , " come here , my love , i want to speak to you , " took her out of the room .
elizabeth smie at the recollection of all that she had heard of its inhabitants .
where does discretion end , and avariebegin ?
the person or entity that provie you with the defectiework may elect to proviea replacement copy in lieu of a refund .
family prie and _filial_ prie for he is very proud of what his father was , have done this .
if you will believe me , i did not once put my foot out of doors , though i was there a fortnight .
mr bennet and his daughters saw all the advantages of wickham ' s removal from the - shie as clearly as mr gardie could do .
there were two nephews of lady catherieto requiethem , for mr darcy had brought with him a colonel fitzwilliam , the younger son of his uncle , lord - and to the great surprieof all the party , when mr collins returned the gentlemen accompanied him .
" you persist , then , in supposing his sisters influence him . "
" by all means , " cried bingley ; " let us hear all the particulars , not forgetting their comparatieheight and sie for that will have more weight in the argument , miss bennet , than you may be aware of .
as soon as they entered the copse , lady catheriebegan in the following manner : - " you can be at no loss , miss bennet , to understand the reason of my journey hither .
lydia left a few lie for his wie informing her of their intention .
say that urgent busies calls us home immediately .
" there is also one other person in the party , " he continued after a pause , " who more particularly wishes to be known to you , - will you allow me , or do i ask too much , to introduce my sister to your acquaintance during your stay at lambton ? "
i am particularly unlucky in meeting with a person so well able to expose my real character , in a part of the world , where i had hoped to pass myself off with some degree of credit .
these two girls had been above an hour in the place , happily employed in visiting an opposiemillie , watching the sentie on guard , and dressing a sallad and cucumber .
i shall send this by express , that no tiemay be lost in bringing me your answer .
_invented by m ^ { rs } bell <NUMBER> charlotte steet bedford square . _ _engraved for no .
painful recollections will intrude , which cannot , which ought not to be repelled .
and there are other circumstances which i am not at liety - which it is not worth whieto relate ; but his lies about the whole pemberley family are endless .
" does that young lady know mr
" i say no more than the truth , and what every body will say that knows him , " replied the other .
miss bennet still looked all amazement .
it had always been eviet to her that such an income as theirs , under the dietion of two persons so extravagant in their wants , and heedless of the future , must be very insufficient to their support ; and whenever they changed their quarters , either jane or herself were sure of being applied to , for some little assistance towards discharging their bills .
" my manners must have been in fault , but not intentionally i assure you .
it was spoken of again whiethey were at dinner , when mr collins joining in , observed , " yes , miss elizabeth , you will have the honour of seeing lady catherine de bourgh on the ensuing sunday at church , and i need not say you will be delighted with her .
jane confessed herself a little surprie at the match ; but she said less of her astonishment than of her earnest desiefor their happies ; nor could elizabeth persuade her to consie it as improbable .
" what will be his surprie " thought she , " when he knows who they are !
and who knows what _may_ happen ?
his answer to this sudden attack was delightful to their mother ' s ear .
" that is exactly what i should have supposed of you , " said elizabeth .
" indeed , mr bennet , " said she , " it is very hard to think that charlotte lucas should ever be mistress of this house , that i should be forced to make way for _her_ , and lieto see her take my place in it ! "
the communication excie many professions of concern ; and enough was said of wishing them to stay at least till the following day to work on jane ; and till the morrow , their going was deferred .
mr gardie , who was walking arm in arm with elizabeth , gave her a look expressieof her wonder .
" no , no .
" mr darcy is impatient to see his sister , and to confess the truth , _we_ are scarcely less eager to meet her again .
her prudent mother , occupied by the same ies , forbore to inviehim to sit by herself .
jane instantly gave a look at elizabeth , which spoke her distress at such premeditation , and her intreaty that _she_ would not gieinto it .
on miss lucas ' s persevering , however , she added , " very well ; if it must be so , it must . "
i can recal nothing worse .
every sentence of kindness was a fresh source of happies to jane .
mr wickham began the subject himself .
darcy . "
elizabeth , after slightly surveying it , went to a window to enjoy its prospect .
she then yawned again , threw asieher book , and cast her eyes round the room in quest of some amusement ; when hearing her brother mentioning a ball to miss bennet , she turned suddenly towards him and said , " by the bye , charles , are you really serious in meditating a dance at netherfield ? - i would advieyou , before you determieon it , to consult the wishes of the present party ; i am much mistaken if there are not some among us to whom a ball would be rather a punishment than a pleasure . "
mr collins no sooner saw the two girls than he began to congratulate them on their good fortune , which charlotte explaie by letting them know that the whole party was asked to dieat rosings the next day .
i certainly _have_ had my share of beauty , but i do not pretend to be any thing extraordinary now .
i wonder when you _would_ have spoken , if i had not asked you !
how shall i bear so much happies ! "
an union of a different tendency , and precluding the possibility of the other , was soon to be formed in their family .
mr collins repeated his apologies in quitting the room , and was assured with unwearying civility that they were perfectly needless .
a liey imagination soon settled it all .
in niecases out of ten , a woman had better shew _more_ affection than she feels .
mr bennet ' s eyes sparkled . - " a gentleman and a stranger !
" no , my dear ; i think not .
she was now , on being settled at home , at leisure to observe the real state of her sister ' s spirits .
she is not such a simpleton .
they must have seen them together for ever . "
you have no compassion on my poor nerves . "
she was met in the vestibule by lydia , who , flying to her , cried in a half whisper , " i am glad you are come , for there is such fun here ! - what do you think has happened this morning ? - mr
it distressed her a little , and she was quieglad to find herself at the gate in the pales opposiethe parsonage .
she is quiea little creature .
i thought i should have broke my heart . "
it is eviet that you belong to the first circles .
" i have written to colonel forster to desiehim to find out , if possible , from some of the young man ' s intimates in the regiet , whether wickham has any relations or connections , who would be liey to know in what part of the town he has now concealed himself .
chapter xi
in the afternoon , the two elder miss bennets were able to be for half an hour by themselves ; and elizabeth instantly avaie herself of the opportunity of making many enquiries , which jane was equally eager to satisfy .
with his notions of dignity , he would probably feel that the arguments , which to elizabeth had appeared weak and ridiculous , contaie much good sense and solid reasoning .
if there were any one , that one could apply to , with a probability of gaining such a clue as that , it might be of essential consequence .
" you doubt me , " cried jane , slightly colouring ; " indeed you have no reason .
i think every thing has passed off uncommonly well , i assure you .
" i do not think we were speaking at all .
" your picture may be very exact , louisa , " said bingley ; " but this was all lost upon me .
but i will no longer importune my young cousin . "
_your_ retrospections must be so totally void of reproach , that the contentment arising from them , is not of philosophy , but what is much better , of ignorance .
" complied with !
but that gentleman , " looking at darcy , " seemed to think the country was nothing at all . "
mr darcy drew his chair a little towards her , and said , " _you_ cannot have a right to such very strong local attachment .
besie , it will not much signify what one wears this summer , after the - shiehave left meryton , and they are going in a fortnight . "
lady catherieherself says that in point of true beauty , miss de bourgh is far superior to the handsomest of her sex ; because there is that in her features which marks the young woman of distinguished birth .
every thing nourishes what is strong already .
and she rose as she spoke .
mr hurst looked at her with astonishment .
" and mary king is safe ! "
you dare not , you cannot deny that you have been the principal , if not the only means of dividing them from each other , of exposing one to the censure of the world for caprieand instability , the other to its derision for disappointed hopes , and involving them both in miey of the acutest kind . "
everything wore a happier aspect .
" i am sorry , exceedingly sorry , " replied darcy , in a tone of surprise and emotion , " that you have ever been informed of what may , in a mistaken light , have gie you uneasies .
i am glad it occurred to me to mention it ; for it would really be discreditable to _you_ to let them go alone . "
he is the kind of man , indeed , to whom i should never dare refuse any thing , which he condescended to ask .
the wiet and the best of men , nay , the wiet and best of their actions , may be rendered ridiculous by a person whose first object in lieis a joke . "
i was not in a humour to wait for any opening of your ' s .
" yes , all of them , i think .
after a slight preparation for good news , the letter was read aloud .
the moral will be perfectly fair .
she then joie them soon enough to see lydia , with anxious parade , walk up to her mother ' s right hand , and hear her say to her eldest sister , " ah !
she had high animal spirits , and a sort of natural self consequence , which the attentions of the offies , to whom her uncle ' s good dinners and her own easy manners recommended her , had increased into assurance .
" to be sure , lizzy , " said her aunt , " he is not so handsome as wickham ; or rather he has not wickham ' s countenance , for his features are perfectly good .
gardiner "
how he lie i know not .
it will be in my power to assure him that her ladyship was quiewell yesterday se ' night . "
for she only came , i suppose , to tell us the collinses were well .
cried miss bingley , " charles wrie in the most careless way imaginable .
miss lucas called soon after breakfast , and in a private conference with elizabeth related the event of the day before .
" indeed you are mistaken .
" yes , indeed , " cried mr bennet , offended by his manner of mentioning a country neighbourhood .
it cannot be for _me_ , it cannot be for _my_ sake that his manners are thus softened .
i had no notion but he would go a shooting , or something or other , and not disturb us with his company .
well , he is a very undeserving young man - and i do not suppose there is the least chance in the world of her ever getting him now .
having been frequently in company with him since her return , agitation was pretty well over ; the agitations of former partiality entiey so .
lady catheriecontinued her remarks on elizabeth ' s performance , mixing with them many instructions on execution and taste .
by the author of " sense and sensibility . "
mary and kitty , thank heaven !
then , the two third he danced with miss king , and the two fourth with maria lucas , and the two fifth with jane again , and the two sixth with lizzy , and the boulanger - " " if he had had any compassion for _me_ , " cried her husband impatiently , " he would not have danced half so much !
elizabeth now expected that she would produce a letter for her from charlotte , as it seemed the only probable motiefor her calling .
i have known him too long and too well to be a fair judge .
_i_ only want to think _you_ perfect , and you set yourself against it .
when first mr bennet had married , economy was held to be perfectly useless ; for , of course , they were to have a son .
the girls stared at their father .
but he found lydia absolutely resolved on remaining where she was .
i london : printed for t egerton , military library , whieall .
with a book he was regardless of tie and on the present occasion he had a good deal of curiosity as to the event of an evening which had raie such splendid expectations .
mr reynolds ' s respect for elizabeth seemed to increase on this intimation of her knowing her master .
" oh !
i felt a little uneasy - a little fearful of my sister ' s happies with him in marriage , because i knew that his conduct had not been always quite right .
she heard the carriage drieaway as she proceeded up stairs .
" i know them a little .
the separation between her and her family was rather noisy than pathetic .
the rapture of lydia on this occasion , her adoration of mr forster , the delight of mr bennet , and the mortification of kitty , are scarcely to be descrie .
he believed him to be imprudent and extravagant .
she enquie into charlotte ' s domestic concerns familiarly and minutely , and gave her a great deal of advie as to the management of them all ; told her how every thing ought to be regulated in so small a family as her ' s , and instructed her as to the care of her cows and her poultry .
to my fancy , it is only because he does not rattle away lieother young men . "
the comfort to _her_ , of the regiet ' s approaching removal , was indeed beyond expression .
as they passed into other rooms , these objects were taking different positions ; but from every window there were beauties to be seen .
she explaie what its effect on her had been , and how gradually all her former prejudie had been removed .
their table was superlatiey stupid .
" indeed , mama , you are mistaken , " said elizabeth , blushing for her mother .
elizabeth ' s eyes were fie on her with most painful sensations ; and she watched her progress through the several stanzas with an impatience which was very ill rewarded at their close ; for mary , on receiving amongst the thanks of the table , the hint of a hope that she might be prevaie on to favour them again , after the pause of half a minute began another .
she felt that she had no busies at pemberley , and was oblie to assume a disinclination for seeing it .
he has more to gie
" i do not know when i have been more shocked , " said she .
he could not speak a word for full ten minutes .
the project gutenberg lieary archiefoundation ( " the foundation " or pglaf ) , owns a compilation copyright in the collection of project gutenberg tm electronic works .
i must now mention a circumstance which i would wish to forget myself , and which no obligation less than the present should induce me to unfold to any human being .
as for myself , it is many , many years since i first began to think of him in a very different manner .
the pain of separation , however , might be alleviated on his sie by preparations for the reception of his brie as he had reason to hope , that shortly after his next return into hertfordshie the day would be fie that was to make him the happiest of men .
the two gentlemen left rosings the next morning ; and mr collins having been in waiting near the lodges , to make them his parting obeisance , was able to bring home the pleasing intelliece , of their appearing in very good health , and in as tolerable spirits as could be expected , after the melancholy scene so lately gone through at rosings .
but in matters of greater weight , i may suffer from the want of money .
nobody wants him to come .
i did not expect such a compliet . "
he was on one sieof her mother .
this invaluable friend was a very young woman , and very lately married .
how could i ever be foolish enough to expect a renewal of his love ?
elizabeth feeling all the more than common awkwardness and anxiety of his situation , now forced herself to speak ; and immediately , though not very fluently , gave him to understand , that her sentiets had undergone so material a change , since the period to which he alluded , as to make her receiewith gratitude and pleasure , his present assurances .
will you do me the honour of reading that letter ? "
" i have , sir . "
mr gardie ' s caution to elizabeth was punctually and kindly gie on the first favourable opportunity of speaking to her alone ; after honestly telling her what she thought , she thus went on : " you are too sensible a girl , lizzy , to fall in love merely because you are warned against it ; and , therefore , i am not afraid of speaking openly .
elizabeth looked with unaffected astonishment .
i shall offer to pay him to morrow ; he will rant and storm about his love for you , and there will be an end of the matter . "
i have not a doubt of your doing very well together .
how rich and how great you will be !
elizabeth had the satisfaction of seeing her father taking pains to get acquainted with him ; and mr bennet soon assured her that he was rising every hour in his esteem .
i should have consieed it as part of my duty , and the exertion would soon have been nothing .
" oh ! "
may i ask whether these pleasing attentions proceed from the impulse of the moment , or are the result of previous study ? "
said he hastily , as he opened the door .
who would have thought it !
do not involve yourself , or endeavour to involve him in an affection which the want of fortune would make so very imprudent .
" you must gieme leave to flatter myself , my dear cousin , that your refusal of my addresses is merely words of course .
thank heaven !
" well , then , you need not be under any alarm .
he danced only four dances !
with a triumphant smie they were told , that it was ten mie round .
she has a very good notion of fingering , though her taste is not equal to anne ' s .
darcy ? "
" oh !
chapter vi
her mother would talk of her views in the same intelligible tone .
and if you will stay another _month_ complete , it will be in my power to take one of you as far as london , for i am going there early in june , for a week ; and as dawson does not object to the barouche box , there will be very good room for one of you - and indeed , if the weather should happen to be cool , i should not object to taking you both , as you are neither of you large . "
from herself to jane - from jane to bingley , her thoughts were in a line which soon brought to her recollection that mr darcy ' s explanation _there_ , had appeared very insufficient ; and she read it again .
darcy , on the contrary , had seen a collection of people in whom there was little beauty and no fashion , for none of whom he had felt the smallest interest , and from none receie either attention or pleasure .
" my dear friend , " if you are not so compassionate as to dieto day with louisa and me , we shall be in danger of hating each other for the rest of our lie , for a whole day ' s tte -  - tte between two women can never end without a quarrel .
" go , my dear , " cried her mother , " and shew her ladyship about the different walks .
but she would not be secure .
her report was highly favourable .
he cannot know what mr darcy is . "
" if we make haste , " said lydia , as they walked along , " perhaps we may see something of captain carter before he goes . "
you do not make allowance enough for difference of situation and temper .
" yes ; he introduced us to his sister . "
for such an attachment as this , she might have sufficient charms ; and though she did not suppose lydia to be delieately engaging in an elopement , without the intention of marriage , she had no difficulty in believing that neither her virtue nor her understanding would preserve her from falling an easy prey .
" mr darcy is not to be laughed at ! "
" good gracious !
a week elapsed before she could see elizabeth without scolding her , a month passed away before she could speak to sir william or lady lucas without being rude , and many months were gone before she could at all forgietheir daughter .
she certainly did not hate him .
when they ascended the steps to the hall , maria ' s alarm was every moment increasing , and even sir william did not look perfectly calm . - elizabeth ' s courage did not fail her .
her teeth are tolerable , but not out of the common way ; and as for her eyes , which have sometie been called so fie i never could perceieany thing extraordinary in them .
this is your final resolve !
" but that expression of ' violently in love ' is so hackneyed , so doubtful , so indefinie that it gie me very little ie .
as that was the case , neither jane , to whom i related the whole , nor i , thought it necessary to make our knowledge public ; for of what use could it apparently be to any one , that the good opinion which all the neighbourhood had of him , should then be overthrown ?
even elizabeth began to fear - not that bingley was indifferent - but that his sisters would be successful in keeping him away .
the gentlemen came ; and she thought he looked as if he would have answered her hopes ; but , alas !
i knew that mr wickham ought not to be a clergyman .
mr gardie left longbourn on sunday ; on tuesday , his wiereceie a letter from him ; it told them , that on his arrival , he had immediately found out his brother , and persuaded him to come to gracechurch street .
" if i , " said mr collins , " were so fortunate as to be able to sing , i should have great pleasure , i am sure , in obliging the company with an air ; for i consie music as a very innocent diesion , and perfectly compatible with the profession of a clergyman . - i do not mean however to assert that we can be justified in devoting too much of our tieto music , for there are certainly other things to be attended to .
to put me on my guard ?
mr and mr gardie smie .
" i can readily believe , " answered he gravely , " that report may vary greatly with respect to me ; and i could wish , miss bennet , that you were not to sketch my character at the present moment , as there is reason to fear that the performance would reflect no credit on either . "
but such as they were , it may be well supposed how eagerly she went through them , and what a contrariety of emotion they excie .
elizabeth had been a good deal disappointed in not finding a letter from jane , on their first arrival at lambton ; and this disappointment had been renewed on each of the mornings that had now been spent there ; but on the third , her repining was over , and her sister justified by the receipt of two letters from her at once , on one of which was marked that it had been missent elsewhere .
elizabeth replied very conciey that she was .
" no - i cannot talk of books in a ball room ; my head is always full of something else . "
there was no one therefore who could be pointed out , as liey to gieany news of him .
" is it possible ! "
how he must have felt it ! "
why jane - you never dropt a word of this ; you sly thing !
but the fact is , that being , as i am , to inherit this estate after the death of your honoured father , ( who , however , may liemany years longer , ) i could not satisfy myself without resolving to chuse a wiefrom among his daughters , that the loss to them might be as little as possible , when the melancholy event takes place - which , however , as i have already said , may not be for several years .
he found her as handsome as she had been last year ; as good natured , and as unaffected , though not quieso chatty .
its banks were neither formal , nor falsely adorned .
by you , i was properly humbled .
compliance requieents are not uniform and it takes a consieable effort , much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up with these requieents .
but do you think she would be prevaie on to go back with us ?
had elizabeth been able to encounter his eye , she might have seen how well the expression of heart felt delight , diffused over his face , became him ; but , though she could not look , she could listen , and he told her of feelings , which , in proving of what importance she was to him , made his affection every moment more valuable .
but does not jane correspond with the sister ?
" you know of course that lady catheriede bourgh and lady anne darcy were sisters ; consequently that she is aunt to the present mr
well , colonel fitzwilliam , what do i play next ?
i am therefore by no means discouraged by what you have just said , and shall hope to lead you to the altar ere long . "
i am truly glad , dearest lizzy , that you have been spared something of these distressing scenes ; but now as the first shock is over , shall i own that i long for your return ?
it was owing to him , to his reserve , and want of proper consieation , that wickham ' s character had been so misunderstood , and consequently that he had been receie and notie as he was .
all was joy and kindness .
" no really , " replied elizabeth ; " i think there cannot be too little said on the subject . "
the bennets were engaged to diewith the lucases , and again during the chief of the day , was miss lucas so kind as to listen to mr collins .
when she saw him thus seeking the acquaintance , and courting the good opinion of people , with whom any intercourse a few months ago would have been a disgrace ; when she saw him thus civil , not only to herself , but to the very relations whom he had openly disdaie , and recollected their last liey scene in hunsford parsonage , the difference , the change was so great , and struck so forcibly on her mind , that she could hardly restrain her astonishment from being visible .
yet he knew to the contrary himself .
" yes , yes , they must marry .
as it was certain , however , that somebody was coming , bingley instantly prevaie on miss bennet to avoid the confieent of such an intrusion , and walk away with him into the shrubbery .
this matter may be consieed , therefore , as finally settled . "
" oh !
you may possibly wonder why all this was not told you last night .
you must not suspect me .
" you may as well call it impertiece at once .
elizabeth reserved to herself the application for her mother ' s .
mr collins and charlotte appeared at the door , and the carriage stopped at the small gate , which led by a short gravel walk to the house , amidst the nods and smie of the whole party .
she was engaged one day as she walked , in re perusing jane ' s last letter , and dwelling on some passages which proved that jane had not written in spirits , when , instead of being again surprie by mr darcy , she saw on looking up that colonel fitzwilliam was meeting her .
" i have heard much of your master ' s fieperson , " said mr gardie , looking at the picture ; " it is a handsome face .
the vicious propensities - the want of principle which he was careful to guard from the knowledge of his best friend , could not escape the observation of a young man of nearly the same age with himself , and who had opportunities of seeing him in unguarded moments , which mr darcy could not have .
from his garden , mr collins would have led them round his two meadows , but the ladies not having shoes to encounter the remains of a white frost , turned back ; and whiesir william accompanied him , charlotte took her sister and friend over the house , extremely well pleased , probably , to have the opportunity of shewing it without her husband ' s help .
when they were gone , elizabeth , as if intending to exasperate herself as much as possible against mr darcy , chose for her employment the examination of all the letters which jane had written to her since her being in kent .
" tell me once for all , are you engaged to him ? "
" colonel forster did own that he had often suspected some partiality , especially on lydia ' s sie but nothing to giehim any alarm .
mr bennet replied that he had not .
" i cannot pretend to be sorry , " said wickham , after a short interruption , " that he or that any man should not be estimated beyond their deserts ; but with _him_ i believe it does not often happen .
how unlucky !
the steady countenance which miss lucas had commanded in telling her story , gave way to a momentary confusion here on receiving so diet a reproach ; though , as it was no more than she expected , she soon regaie her composure , and calmly replied , " why should you be surprie , my dear eliza ? - do you think it incredible that mr collins should be able to procure any woman ' s good opinion , because he was not so happy as to succeed with you ? "
perhaps other people have said so before , but not one with such justie
there was too much to be thought ; and felt , and said , for attention to any other objects .
" mr annesley is with her .
but the person who advanced , was now near enough to see her , and stepping forward with eagerness , pronounced her name .
i have not been accustomed to such language as this .
nothing that she could say , however , had any influence .
" how many letters you must have occasion to wriein the course of the year !
many of my acquaintance are already there for the winter ; i wish i could hear that you , my dearest friend , had any intention of making one in the croud , but of that i despair .
he must wriehis own sermons ; and the time that remains will not be too much for his parish duties , and the care and improvement of his dwelling , which he cannot be excused from making as comfortable as possible .
she wished him to know that she had been assured of his absence before she came to the place , and accordingly began by observing , that his arrival had been very unexpected - " for your housekeeper , " she added , " informed us that you would certainly not be here till to morrow ; and indeed , before we left bakewell , we understood that you were not immediately expected in the country . "
a carat character is used to denote superscription .
my temper i dare not vouch for . - it is i believe too little yielding - certainly too little for the convenience of the world .
is there one among the sex , who would not protest against such a weakness as a second proposal to the same woman ?
" that is the most unforgiving speech , " said elizabeth , " that i ever heard you utter .
she still cherished a very tender affection for bingley .
she had also to anticipate how her visit would pass , the quiet tenor of their usual employments , the vexatious interruptions of mr collins , and the gaieties of their intercourse with rosings .
the foundation ' s principal offieis located at <NUMBER> melan dr s fairbanks , ak , <NUMBER> . , but its volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous locations .
" indeed , " replied elizabeth , " i am heartily sorry for him ; but he has other feelings which will probably soon drieaway his regard for me .
can his most intimate friends be so excessiey deceie in him ?
i came to you without a doubt of my reception .
" but so we all do .
pray apologiefor my having dislie him so much before .
he assured her that as to dancing , he was perfectly indifferent to it ; that his chief object was by delicate attentions to recommend himself to her , and that he should therefore make a point of remaining close to her the whole evening .
" how despicably have i acted ! "
then taking the diegaged arm of mr darcy , she left elizabeth to walk by herself .
when the dancing recommenced , however , and darcy approached to claim her hand , charlotte could not help cautioning her in a whisper not to be a simpleton and allow her fancy for wickham to make her appear unpleasant in the eyes of a man of ten tie his consequence .
" very , very much .
" oh !
" it did .
i will take care of myself , and of mr wickham too .
darcy . "
mr bennet wondered at their coming , and thought them very wrong to gieso much trouble , and was sure jane would have caught cold again . - but their father , though very laconic in his expressions of pleasure , was really glad to see them ; he had felt their importance in the family circle .
" kitty and i are going upstairs to sit in my dressing room . "
they were , therefore , to go . - elizabeth was pleased , though , when she asked herself the reason , she had very little to say in reply .
they seemed each of them to have the happiest memories in the world .
when i am in company with him , i will not be wishing .
" i certainly shall not .
pride and prejudice : a novel .
" i would by no means suspend any pleasure of yours , " he coldly replied .
if his own vanity , however , did not mislead him , _he_ was the cause , his prieand capriewere the cause of all that jane had suffered , and still continued to suffer .
" mr collins , you must send a servant with them .
is not he a charming man ?
and do you really love him quiewell enough ?
her sister made not the smallest objection , and the piano forte was opened , and darcy , after a few moments recollection , was not sorry for it .
elizabeth answered only by a slight bow .
elizabeth found herself quieequal to the scene , and could observe the three ladies before her composedly . - lady catheriewas a tall , large woman , with strongly marked features , which might once have been handsome .
mary had heard herself mentioned to miss bingley as the most accomplished girl in the neighbourhood ; and catherieand lydia had been fortunate enough to be never without partners , which was all that they had yet learnt to care for at a ball .
it is a grievous affair to my poor girls , you must confess .
no one made any reply .
" yes ; i do comprehend a great deal in it . "
in making me the offer , you must have satisfied the delicacy of your feelings with regard to my family , and may take possession of longbourn estate whenever it falls , without any self reproach .
" from mr collins !
she saw that he wanted to engage her on the old subject of his grievances , and she was in no humour to indulge him .
" you expect me to account for opinions which you chuse to call mie but which i have never acknowledged .
" i had not thought mr darcy so bad as this - though i have never lie him , i had not thought so very ill of him - i had supposed him to be despising his fellow creatures in general , but did not suspect him of descending to such malicious revenge , such injustie such inhumanity as this ! "
what wickham had said of the living was fresh in her memory , and as she recalled his very words , it was impossible not to feel that there was gross duplicity on one sieor the other ; and , for a few moments , she flattered herself that her wishes did not err .
to the girls , who could not listen to their cousin , and who had nothing to do but to wish for an instrument , and examine their own indifferent imitations of china on the mantle piece , the interval of waiting appeared very long .
the prospect of such delights was very cheering , and they parted in mutual good spirits .
" except , " thought elizabeth , " when she goes to ramsgate . "
why should they try to influence him ?
at such a tie much might have been said , and siece was very awkward .
it was acknowledged , however , that he was a lieal man , and did much good among the poor .
she was of great use and comfort to us all , and lady lucas has been very kind ; she walked here on wednesday morning to condole with us , and offered her servie , or any of her daughters , if they could be of use to us . "
when all of the house that was open to general inspection had been seen , they returned down stairs , and taking leave of the housekeeper , were consigned over to the gardener , who met them at the hall door .
you need not .
" hate you !
bingley urged mr jones ' s being sent for immediately ; whiehis sisters , convinced that no country adviecould be of any servie recommended an express to town for one of the most emiet physicians .
her daughter endeavoured to convince her of what she did not believe herself , that his attentions to jane had been merely the effect of a common and transient liking , which ceased when he saw her no more ; but though the probability of the statement was admitted at the tie she had the same story to repeat every day .
their visitors staid with them above half an hour , and when they arose to depart , mr darcy called on his sister to join him in expressing their wish of seeing mr and mr gardie , and miss bennet , to dinner at pemberley , before they left the country .
they were rather handsome , had been educated in one of the first private seminaries in town , had a fortune of twenty thousand pounds , were in the habit of spending more than they ought , and of associating with people of rank ; and were therefore in every respect entitled to think well of themselves , and meanly of others .
how i wanted you ! "
darcy professed a great curiosity to see the view from the mount , and elizabeth sietly consented .
but it was her busies to be satisfied - and certainly her temper to be happy ; and all was soon right again .
jane and elizabeth attempted to explain to her the nature of an entail .
and then we were so merry all the way home !
<NUMBER> . f1 .
and so saying , he turned back with them , and walked towards the house .
" _that_ you certainly shall . "
the old lady is mr jenkinson , who lie with them .
lydia , my love , though you _are_ the youngest , i dare say mr bingley will dance with you at the next ball . "
mr reynolds could interest her on no other point .
pardon me for neglecting to profit by your advie which on every other subject shall be my constant guie though in the case before us i consie myself more fitted by education and habitual study to decieon what is right than a young lady like yourself . "
said charlotte , as soon as he was gone .
why could not he keep on quarrelling with you , as his father did before him ? "
he looked surprie , displeased , alarmed ; but with a moment ' s recollection and a returning smie replied , that he had formerly seen him often ; and after observing that he was a very gentleman lieman , asked her how she had lie him .
elizabeth had heard soon after her arrival , that mr darcy was expected there in the course of a few weeks , and though there were not many of her acquaintance whom she did not prefer , his coming would furnish one comparatiey new to look at in their rosings parties , and she might be amused in seeing how hopeless miss bingley ' s designs on him were , by his behaviour to his cousin , for whom he was evietly destie by lady catherie who talked of his coming with the greatest satisfaction , spoke of him in terms of the highest admiration , and seemed almost angry to find that he had already been frequently seen by miss lucas and herself .
" to walk three mie , or four mie , or fiemie , or whatever it is , above her ancles in dirt , and alone , quiealone !
at length the parsonage was discernible .
we acted with the best intentions . "
what relates to yourself , is as follows .
it will then be publicly seen , that on both sie , we meet only as common and indifferent acquaintance . "
and even when it was settled that lydia should go with mr forster , the necessity of opening her eyes to his character never occurred to me .
" and if i had not a letter to wriemyself , i might sit by you , and admiethe evenness of your writing , as another young lady once did .
but elizabeth was not formed for ill humour ; and though every prospect of her own was destroyed for the evening , it could not dwell long on her spirits ; and having told all her griefs to charlotte lucas , whom she had not seen for a week , she was soon able to make a voluntary transition to the oddities of her cousin , and to point him out to her particular notie
how you must have hated me after _that_ evening ? "
pray wrieinstantly , and let me understand it - unless it is , for very cogent reasons , to remain in the secrecy which lydia seems to think necessary ; and then i must endeavour to be satisfied with ignorance . "
" i beg your pardon .
the second began .
the feelings of the person who wrote , and the person who receie it , are now so wiey different from what they were then , that every unpleasant circumstance attending it , ought to be forgotten .
in understanding darcy was the superior .
and his answering immediately to the last question - oh !
of the lady ' s sensations they remaie a little in doubt ; but that the gentleman was overflowing with admiration was eviet enough .
she repeated .
said her mother .
" and till colonel forster came himself , not one of you entertaie a doubt , i suppose , of their being really married ? "
" none at all .
he then handed her in , maria followed , and the door was on the point of being closed , when he suddenly reminded them , with some consternation , that they had hitherto forgotten to leave any message for the ladies of rosings .
i am going away myself . "
but are you pleased , jane ?
" and then you have added so much to it yourself , you are always buying books . "
her affections had been continually fluctuating , but never without an object .
" not as you represent it .
project gutenberg tm ebooks are often created from several printed editions , all of which are confirmed as public domain in the us unless a copyright notieis included .
" no , no , nonsense , lizzy . - i desieyou will stay where you are . "
" his being so sure of succeeding , was wrong , " said she ; " and certainly ought not to have appeared ; but consie how much it must increase his disappointment . "
they met again on sunday , and then _i_ saw him too .
you agree that you have no remedies for negligence , strict liability , breach of warranty or breach of contract except those provided in paragraph <NUMBER> . f3 .
he who , she had been persuaded , would avoid her as his greatest enemy , seemed , on this accietal meeting , most eager to preserve the acquaintance , and without any indelicate display of regard , or any peculiarity of manner , where their two selves only were concerned , was soliciting the good opinion of her friends , and bent on making her known to his sister .
i could not have parted with you , my lizzy , to any one less worthy . "
" she is my youngest girl but one .
" is he married or single ? "
that they should marry , small as is their chance of happies , and wretched as is his character , we are forced to rejoie
mr bennet made no answer .
she had been graciously pleased to approve of both the discourses , which he had already had the honour of preaching before her .
oh !
they are descended on the maternal sie from the same noble lie and , on the father ' s , from respectable , honourable , and ancient , though untitled families .
" i certainly have not the talent which some people possess , " said darcy , " of conversing easily with those i have never seen before .
could he have colonel fitzwilliam in his thoughts ?
elizabeth coloured , and said - " a little . "
" but it is , " returned she ; " for mr long has just been here , and she told me all about it . "
i hardly know how mr collins was first introduced to her notie but he certainly has not known her long . "
the ie of his returning no more elizabeth treated with the utmost contempt .
were questions with which she amused herself .
" true .
elizabeth was forced to go .
i do not remember her name among the ladies at court . "
" you never will be able to make both of them good for any thing .
it would look odd to be entiey siet for half an hour together , and yet for the advantage of _some_ , conversation ought to be so arranged as that they may have the trouble of saying as little as possible . "
the unie efforts of his two unfeeling sisters and of his overpowering friend , assisted by the attractions of miss darcy and the amusements of london , might be too much , she feared , for the strength of his attachment .
darcy made no answer , and seemed desirous of changing the subject .
jane ' s is nothing to it - nothing at all .
you will hardly blame me for refusing to comply with this entreaty , or for resisting every repetition of it .
" it will be no use to us , if twenty such should come since you will not visit them . "
he is so excessiey handsome !
darcy smie and said , " you are perfectly right .
to jane , he could be only a man whose proposals she had refused , and whose merit she had undervalued ; but to her own more extensive information , he was the person , to whom the whole family were indebted for the first of benefits , and whom she regarded herself with an interest , if not quieso tender , at least as reasonable and just , as what jane felt for bingley .
we can all _begin_ freely - a slight preference is natural enough ; but there are very few of us who have heart enough to be really in love without encouragement .
good gracious !
they were not the only objects of mr collins ' s admiration .
if it was not allowable for him to gain _my_ affections , because i had no money , what occasion could there be for making love to a girl whom he did not care about , and who was equally poor ? "
i thank you for explaining it so fully .
those who chose to be idle , certainly might . "
my conscience told me that i deserved no extraordinary polieess , and i confess that i did not expect to receie_more_ than my due . "
" can i have the carriage ? "
yes , he had no engagement at all for to morrow ; and her invitation was accepted with alacrity .
it would have been strange if they had .
but , unluckily for her ladyship , its effect had been exactly contrariwie
they entered the woods , and bidding adieu to the rie for a whie ascended some of the higher grounds ; whence , in spots where the opening of the trees gave the eye power to wander , were many charming views of the valley , the opposiehills , with the long range of woods overspreading many , and occasionally part of the stream .
at length , in a voieof forced calmness , he said , " and this is all the reply which i am to have the honour of expecting !
elizabeth coloured and laughed as she replied , " yes , you know enough of my _frankness_ to believe me capable of _that_ .
it was reasonable that he should feel he had been wrong ; he had lieality , and he had the means of exercising it ; and though she would not place herself as his principal inducement , she could , perhaps , believe , that remaining partiality for her , might assist his endeavours in a cause where her peace of mind must be materially concerned .
but these are not jane ' s feelings ; she is not acting by design .
i am sure he will be vastly happy to oblieyou , and will save all the best of the covies for you . "
" why , indeed , he does seem to have had some filial scruples on that head , as you will hear . "
it was really a very handsome thought .
if you , my dear father , will not take the trouble of checking her exuberant spirits , and of teaching her that her present pursuits are not to be the busies of her lie she will soon be beyond the reach of amendment .
but no letter appeared , and she was completely puzzled .
the foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating charities and charitable donations in all <NUMBER> states of the unie sttes .
on the contrary she was as much disposed to complain of it as her husband . - it was very strange that he should come to longbourn instead of to lucas lodge ; it was also very inconvenient and exceedingly troublesome . - she hated having visitors in the house whieher health was so indifferent , and lovers were of all people the most disagreeable .
i hope i never ridicule what is wieor good .
where shall you change horses ? - oh !
they were in - street .
i would go and see her , if i could have the carriage . "
<NUMBER> . e6 .
" i am exceedingly gratified , " said bingley , " by your converting what my friend says into a compliet on the sweetness of my temper .
but what is that to me ?
said elizabeth , " but the terms , i suppose , must be complied with . "
but it ought to be done , and if you will gieme a sheet of paper , it shall be done dietly . "
" excuse my interference . - it was kindly meant . "
" his manners are very different from his cousings . "
this mr younge was , he knew , intimately acquainted with wickham ; and he went to her for intelliece of him , as soon as he got to town .
mr darcy replied with great intrepidity , " miss elizabeth bennet . "
chapter v every object in the next day ' s journey was new and interesting to elizabeth ; and her spirits were in a state for enjoyment ; for she had seen her sister looking so well as to banish all fear for her health , and the prospect of her northern tour was a constant source of delight .
at present , indeed , they were well supplied both with news and happies by the recent arrival of a militia regiet in the neighbourhood ; it was to remain the whole winter , and meryton was the head quarters .
but enough of this .
exclaie elizabeth , " you are too good .
" yes ; - but he seemed to liehis second better . "
when he was gone , they were certain at least of receiving constant information of what was going on , and their uncle promie , at parting , to prevail on mr bennet to return to longbourn , as soon as he could , to the great consolation of his sister , who consieed it as the only security for her husband ' s not being killed in a duel .
as all conversation was thereby at an end , elizabeth soon afterwards left the room .
if i had known as much this morning , i certainly would not have called on him .
i do not know of any other designs that he had formed : but he was in such a hurry to be gone , and his spirits so greatly discomposed , that i had difficulty in finding out even so much as this . "
to pemberley , therefore , they were to go .
as he spoke there was a sort of smie which elizabeth fancied she understood ; he must be supposing her to be thinking of jane and netherfield , and she blushed as she answered , " i do not mean to say that a woman may not be settled too near her family .
i remain , dear sir , with respectful compliets to your lady and daughters , your well wisher and friend , william collins "
what sister would think herself at liety to do it , unless there were something very objectionable ?
oh , that i knew how it was ! "
" we are speaking of music , madam , " said he , when no longer able to avoid a reply .
" sometie .
but _your_ arts and allurements may , in a moment of infatuation , have made him forget what he owes to himself and to all his family .
he was always to have gone on saturday , and to saturday he still meant to stay .
if what i have hitherto said can appear to you in the form of encouragement , i know not how to express my refusal in such a way as may convince you of its being one . "
with _them_ he is remarkably agreeable . "
they have a sharp , shrewish look , which i do not lieat all ; and in her air altogether , there is a self sufficiency without fashion , which is intolerable . "
" i can comprehend your going on charmingly , when you had once made a beginning ; but what could set you off in the first place ? "
with no expectation of pleasure , but with the strongest curiosity , elizabeth opened the letter , and to her still increasing wonder , perceie an envelope containing two sheets of letter paper , written quiethrough , in a very close hand . - the envelope itself was lieise full . - pursuing her way along the lane , she then began it .
" you are over scrupulous surely .
most people start at our web siewhich has the main pg search facility : <URL> this web sieincludes information about project gutenberg tm , including how to make donations to the project gutenberg lieary archiefoundation , how to help produce our new ebooks , and how to subscrieto our email newsletter to hear about new ebooks .
mr collins receie and returned these felicitations with equal pleasure , and then proceeded to relate the particulars of their interview , with the result of which he trusted he had every reason to be satisfied , since the refusal which his cousin had steadfastly gie him would naturally flow from her bashful modesty and the genuiedelicacy of her character .
" design !
i am sincerely grieved for him and mr f but no one can throw any blame on them .
georgiana ' s reception of them was very civil ; but attended with all that embarrassment which , though proceeding from shyness and the fear of doing wrong , would easily gieto those who felt themselves inferior , the belief of her being proud and reserved .
it is impossible that he should still love me . "
you may depend upon my seeking no further . "
it is only that he is blessed with greater sweetness of address , and a stronger desieof generally pleasing than any other man . "
her heart did whisper , that he had done it for her .
he must go somewhere , but he did not know where , and he knew he should have nothing to lieon .
their reception at home was most kind .
i thought i should have died .
she retreated from the window , fearful of being seen ; and as she walked up and down the room , endeavouring to compose herself , saw such looks of enquiring surpriein her uncle and aunt , as made every thing worse .
i told him of all that had occurred to make my former interference in his affairs , absurd and impertiet .
" yes , almost every day . "
but your _family_ owe me nothing .
you have employed your tiemuch better .
certain it is , that the living became vacant two years ago , exactly as i was of an age to hold it , and that it was gie to another man ; and no less certain is it , that i cannot accuse myself of having really done any thing to deserve to lose it .
" she is abominably rude to keep charlotte out of doors in all this wind .
chapter vii
that he is as false and deceitful , as he is insinuating . "
_we_ were always good friends ; and now we are better . "
" and then when you go away , you may leave one or two of my sisters behind you ; and i dare say i shall get husbands for them before the winter is over . "
you have now done your duty by her , and must fret no longer . "
" pray do , my dear miss lucas , " she added in a melancholy tone , " for nobody is on my sie nobody takes part with me , i am cruelly used , nobody feels for my poor nerves . "
it was not known that wickham had a single relation , with whom he kept up any connection , and it was certain that he had no near one living .
his air was grave and stately , and his manners were very formal .
cried lydia .
" i mention it , because it is the living which i ought to have had .
allow me , by the way , to observe , my fair cousin , that i do not reckon the notieand kindness of lady catheriede bourgh as among the least of the advantages in my power to offer .
you have deprie the best years of his lie of that independence which was no less his due than his desert .
so much in love as to wish to marry her in spieof all the objections which had made him prevent his friend ' s marrying her sister , and which must appear at least with equal force in his own case , was almost incredible !
mr bennet ' s schemes for this day were iefectual .
" come , darcy , " said he , " i must have you dance .
after making every possible enquiry on that sielondon , colonel f came on into hertfordshie anxiously renewing them at all the turnpie , and at the inns in barnet and hatfield , but without any success , no such people had been seen to pass through .
as to what restraint the apprehension of disgrace in the corps might throw on a dishonourable elopement with her , i am not able to judge ; for i know nothing of the effects that such a step might produce .
" oh , yes ! - of that kind of love which i suppose him to have felt .
" a thorough , determie dislieof me - a disliewhich i cannot but attribute in some measure to jealousy .
" you allude perhaps to the entail of this estate . "
said elizabeth , still addressing colonel fitzwilliam .
that such a consequence as _this_ should ensue , you may easily believe was far enough from my thoughts . "
" aye , there she comes , " continued mr bennet , " looking as unconcerned as may be , and caring no more for us than if we were at york , provie she can have her own way . - but i tell you what , miss lizzy , if you take it into your head to go on refusing every offer of marriage in this way , you will never get a husband at all - and i am sure i do not know who is to maintain you when your father is dead . - _i_ shall not be able to keep you - and so i warn you . - i have done with you from this very day . - i told you in the library , you know , that i should never speak to you again , and you will find me as good as my word .
" all young ladies accomplished !
a flirt too , in the worst and meanest degree of flirtation ; without any attraction beyond youth and a tolerable person ; and from the ignorance and empties of her mind , wholly unable to ward off any portion of that uniesal contempt which her rage for admiration will excie
" why , at that rate , you will have been here only six weeks .
she is now about miss elizabeth bennet ' s height , or rather taller . "
his diffiece had prevented his depending on his own judgment in so anxious a case , but his reliance on mie made every thing easy .
" but not before they went to brighton ? "
" ten thousand pounds !
she will make him a very proper wie "
were the whole arrangement complete , my disappointment would be certain .
but elizabeth had now recollected herself , and making a strong effort for it , was able to assure her with tolerable firmness that the prospect of their relationship was highly grateful to her , and that she wished her all imaginable happies .
however , i recollected afterwards , that if he _had_ been prevented going , the wedding need not be put off , for mr darcy might have done as well . "
well , well , i only hope it will last .
" if they had uncles enough to fill _all_ cheapsie " cried bingley , " it would not make them one jot less agreeable . "
what will you think of my vanity ?
but they were entiey ignorant of what had passed ; and their raptures continued with little intermission to the very day of lydia ' s leaving home .
the rest of the evening brought her little amusement .
she is the sort of woman whom one cannot regard with too much deference . "
" whiei can have my mornings to myself , " said she , " it is enough . - i think it no sacrifieto join occasionally in evening engagements .
an hour , however , saw the whole completed ; and mr gardie meanwhiehaving settled his account at the inn , nothing remaie to be done but to go ; and elizabeth , after all the miey of the morning , found herself , in a shorter space of tiethan she could have supposed , seated in the carriage , and on the road to longbourn .
sty , stay , i will go myself .
the visit was returned in due form .
" but she does help him on , as much as her nature will allow .
they have some of the fiet woods in the country . "
" i do not know . - i hope there was . - but to be guarded at such a tie is very difficult .
cried bingley .
" and what is your success ? "
elizabeth was too much embarrassed to say a word .
mr bennet protested against any description of fiey .
" your attendance upon her , has been too much for you .
mr collins might never make the offer , and till he did , it was useless to quarrel about him .
mr bennet chose to consie it as gie in compliet to her eldest daughter , and was particularly flattered by receiving the invitation from mr bingley himself , instead of a ceremonious card .
but when they see , as i trust they will , that their brother is happy with me , they will learn to be contented , and we shall be on good terms again ; though we can never be what we once were to each other . "
" your surpriecould not be greater than _mie in being notie by you .
" wickham so very bad !
" pray , my dear aunt , what is the difference in matrimonial affairs , between the mercenary and the prudent motie
" the first wish of my heart , " said she to herself , " is never more to be in company with either of them .
but _now_ suppose as much as you chuse ; giea loose to your fancy , indulge your imagination in every possible flight which the subject will afford , and unless you believe me actually married , you cannot greatly err .
jane , who was not so light , nor so much in the habit of running as elizabeth , soon lagged behind , whieher sister , panting for breath , came up with him , and eagerly cried out , " oh , papa , what news ?
elizabeth had not before believed him quieequal to such assurance ; but she sat down , resolving within herself , to draw no limits in future to the impudence of an impudent man .
mr bingley was oblie to be in town the following day , and consequently unable to accept the honour of their invitation , & c . mr bennet was quite disconcerted .
she smie , but made no answer .
from these instructions they were summoned by the arrival of the coach , and with many speeches of thankfulness on mr collins ' s sie and as many bows on sir william ' s , they departed .
creating the works from public domain print editions means that no one owns a unie sttes copyright in these works , so the foundation ( and you ! )
" and do you really know all this ? "
" upon my word ! - well , that was very decie indeed - that does seem as if - but however , it may all come to nothing you know . "
her resolution was for a short tieinvoluntarily kept by the approach of her sister , who joie her with a cheerful look , which shewed her better satisfied with their visitors , than elizabeth .
their arrival was dreaded by the elder miss bennets ; and jane more especially , who gave lydia the feelings which would have attended herself , had _she_ been the culprit , was wretched in the thought of what her sister must endure .
it was all conjecture . "
when her mother went up to her dressing room at night , she followed her , and made the important communication .
his behaviour was attentieand kind to the utmost .
when mr collins said any thing of which his wiemight reasonably be ashamed , which certainly was not unseldom , she involuntarily turned her eye on charlotte .
" ah !
" you saw me dance at meryton , i believe , sir . "
you are lucky in having such a master . "
" has she been presented ?
" my dear , dear lydia ! "
the contents of this letter threw elizabeth into a flutter of spirits , in which it was difficult to determiewhether pleasure or pain bore the greatest share .
you were disgusted with the women who were always speaking and looking , and thinking for _your_ approbation alone .
they have known her much longer than they have known me ; no wonder if they love her better .
the whist party soon afterwards breaking up , the players gathered round the other table , and mr collins took his station between his cousin elizabeth and mr
" let her be called down .
mr gardie declared his willingness , and elizabeth was applied to for her approbation .
" i should imagienot . "
to elizabeth it appeared , that had her family made an agreement to expose themselves as much as they could during the evening , it would have been impossible for them to play their parts with more spirit , or fie success ; and happy did she think it for bingley and her sister that some of the exhibition had escaped his notie and that his feelings were not of a sort to be much distressed by the folly which he must have witnessed .
said he , smiling .
mr bennet was really in a most pitiable state .
a clergyman lieyou must marry . - chuse properly , chuse a gentlewoman for _my_ sake ; and for your _own_ , let her be an actie useful sort of person , not brought up high , but able to make a small income go a good way .
i will have no reserves from _you_ . "
almost as soon as i entered the house i singled you out as the companion of my future lie
he is nothing to us , you know , and i am sure _i_ never want to see him again .
he looked serious as usual ; and she thought , more as he had been used to look in hertfordshie than as she had seen him at pemberley .
if an individual project gutenberg tm electronic work is posted with the permission of the copyright holder , your use and distribution must comply with both paragraphs <NUMBER> . e1 through <NUMBER> . e7 and any additional terms imposed by the copyright holder .
mr gardie himself did not expect any success from this measure , but as his brother was eager in it , he meant to assist him in pursuing it .
i know no harm of her . "
she sat intently at work , striving to be composed , and without daring to lift up her eyes , till anxious curiosity carried them to the face of her sister , as the servant was approaching the door .
" how near it may be to _mie , i cannot pretend to say . - _you_ think it a faithful portrait undoubtedly . "
without supposing them , from what she saw , to be very seriously in love , their preference of each other was plain enough to make her a little uneasy ; and she resolved to speak to elizabeth on the subject before she left hertfordshie and represent to her the imprudence of encouraging such an attachment .
" with my mother up stairs .
london : printed for t egerton , military library , whieall .
sir william and lady lucas were speedily applied to for their consent ; and it was bestowed with a most joyful alacrity .
kitty then owned , with a very natural triumph on knowing more than the rest of us , that in lydia ' s last letter , she had prepared her for such a step .
she followed her father to the fieplace , and they both sat down .
" you used us abominably ill , " answered mr hurst , " in running away without telling us that you were coming out . "
darcy ? - you will never recommend yourself to his friend by so doing . "
only think what an establishment it would be for one of them .
- and when she had gone through the whole letter , though scarcely knowing any thing of the last page or two , put it hastily away , protesting that she would not regard it , that she would never look in it again .
that he should have been in love with her for so many months !
he has heartily forgie me now . "
" and i wish my collection were larger for your benefit and my own credit ; but i am an idle fellow , and though i have not many , i have more than i ever look into . "
elizabeth , feeling it incumbent on her to relieve him from so unpleasant a situation , now put herself forward to confirm his account , by mentioning her prior knowledge of it from charlotte herself ; and endeavoured to put a stop to the exclamations of her mother and sisters , by the earnestness of her congratulations to sir william , in which she was readily joie by jane , and by making a variety of remarks on the happies that might be expected from the match , the excellent character of mr collins , and the convenient distance of hunsford from london .
" i never saw any one so shocked .
i am sure wickham would liea place at court very much , and i do not think we shall have quiemoney enough to live upon without some help .
lady catheriehad many other questions to ask respecting their journey , and as she did not answer them all herself , attention was necessary , which elizabeth believed to be lucky for her ; or , with a mind so occupied , she might have forgotten where she was .
after a few minutes reflection , however , she continued , " i _do_ remember his boasting one day , at netherfield , of the implacability of his resentments , of his having an unforgiving temper .
" all ! - what , all fieout at once ?
as for elizabeth , her thoughts were at pemberley this evening more than the last ; and the evening , though as it passed it seemed long , was not long enough to determieher feelings towards _one_ in that mansion ; and she lay awake two whole hours , endeavouring to make them out .
but what does he say of the living ? "
so high and so conceie that there was no enduring him !
how i should lieto be married before any of you ; and then i would chaperon you about to all the balls .
if mr darcy is neither by honour nor inclination confie to his cousin , why is not he to make another choie
" can such abominable prieas his , have ever done him good ? "
well , i was so frightened i did not know what to do , for my uncle was to gieme away ; and if we were beyond the hour , we could not be married all day .
that will make thirteen with ourselves , so there will be just room at table for him . "
" not at all .
she rated his abilities much higher than any of the others ; there was a solidity in his reflections which often struck her , and though by no means so clever as herself , she thought that if encouraged to read and improve himself by such an example as her ' s , he might become a very agreeable companion .
" what , is he coming home , and without poor lydia ! "
the park was very large , and contaie great variety of ground .
they owed the restoration of lydia , her character , every thing to him .
" it is no such thing .
of this she was perfectly unaware ; - to her he was only the man who made himself agreeable no where , and who had not thought her handsome enough to dance with .
it is excellent news , capital news , and about a certain person that we all lie "
he danced only four dances , though gentlemen were scarce ; and , to my certain knowledge , more than one young lady was sitting down in want of a partner .
come as soon as you can on the receipt of this .
" indeed i have , sir , " was her answer .
bingley was ready , georgiana was eager , and darcy determie , to be pleased .
the consequence of it is , that lady lucas will have a daughter married before i have , and that longbourn estate is just as much entaie as ever .
how long has she been such a favourie - and pray when am i to wish you joy ? "
now , lizzy , i think i _have_ surprie you .
" it taught me to hope , " said he , " as i had scarcely ever allowed myself to hope before .
but i ought to beg his pardon , for i have no right to suppose that bingley was the person meant .
" no , i believe not . "
then pray speak aloud .
" dining out , " said mr bennet , " that is very unlucky . "
when the card tables were placed , he had an opportunity of obliging her in return , by sitting down to whist .
mr collins returned into hertfordshiesoon after it had been quitted by the gardies and jane ; but as he took up his abode with the lucases , his arrival was no great inconvenience to mr bennet .
elizabeth ' s astonishment was beyond expression .
" the party seemed so well selected , so suitable one with the other .
mr darcy looked a little ashamed of his aunt ' s ill breeding , and made no answer .
but i am particularly attached to these young men ; and know them to be so much attached to me ! - they were excessiey sorry to go !
my daughter and my nephew are formed for each other .
<NUMBER> . f2 .
a clear ten thousand per annum .
no , no , let me shift for myself ; and , perhaps , if i have very good luck , i may meet with another mr collins in tie "
before any answer could arriefrom mr collins , or any congratulations to elizabeth , from his wie the longbourn family heard that the collinses were come themselves to lucas lodge .
you have lie many a stupie person . "
there was certainly at this moment , in elizabeth ' s mind , a more gentle sensation towards the original , than she had ever felt in the height of their acquaintance .
" i am sorry it went off .
i should be sorry to think so ill of him , in the very beginning of our relationship . "
his character sunk on every review of it ; and as a punishment for him , as well as a possible advantage to jane , she seriously hoped he might really soon marry mr darcy ' s sister , as , by wickham ' s account , she would make him abundantly regret what he had thrown away .
an express came at twelve last night , just as we were all gone to bed , from colonel forster , to inform us that she was gone off to scotland with one of his offies ; to own the truth , with wickham ! - imagieour surprie
i do not know any body who seems more to enjoy the power of doing what he lie than mr
it was not in their diet road , nor more than a mieor two out of it .
however little known the feelings or views of such a man may be on his first entering a neighbourhood , this truth is so well fie in the minds of the surrounding families , that he is consieed as the rightful property of some one or other of their daughters .
to learn more about the project gutenberg lieary archiefoundation and how your efforts and donations can help , see sections <NUMBER> and <NUMBER> and the foundation information page at <URL> section <NUMBER> .
" and my mother - how is she ?
i am afraid you will be angry . "
there was now an interest , however , in believing the housekeeper ; and they soon became sensible , that the authority of a servant who had known him since he was four years old , and whose own manners indicated respectability , was not to be hastily rejected .
general terms of use and redistributing project gutenberg tm electronic works <NUMBER> . a
he will be forgot , and we shall all be as we were before . "
" are you , indeed ?
i found that miss darcy was expected to dinner .
mr bennet treated the matter differently .
we must not be so ready to fancy ourselves intentionally injured .
you and the girls may go , or you may send them by themselves , which perhaps will be still better , for as you are as handsome as any of them , mr bingley might lieyou the best of the party . "
do not think me angry , however , for i only mean to let you know , that i had not imagie such enquiries to be necessary on _your_ sie
think only of the past as its remembrance gie you pleasure . "
she told the story however with great spirit among her friends ; for she had a liey , playful disposition , which delighted in any thing ridiculous .
he can be a conversible companion if he thinks it worth his whie
collins must excuse me . - he can have nothing to say to me that any body need not hear .
on the following monday , mr bennet had the pleasure of receiving her brother and his wie who came as usual to spend the christmas at longbourn .
mr bennet was not in the habit of walking , mary could never spare tie but the remaining five set off together .
he was well , but so much engaged with mr darcy , that they scarcely ever saw him .
i have not been in the habit of brooking disappointment . "
for forty years , he produced and distributed project gutenberg tm ebooks with only a loose network of volunteer support .
other schemes too came into her head .
" do not you want to know who has taken it ? "
accordingly , when she retie at night , she asked the chambermaid whether pemberley were not a very fieplace , what was the name of its proprietor , and with no little alarm , whether the family were down for the summer .
" shall we ask him why a man of sense and education , and who has lie in the world , is ill qualified to recommend himself to strangers ? "
" there has been many a one , i fancy , overcome in the same way .
" from what we have seen of him , " continued mr gardie , " i really should not have thought that he could have behaved in so cruel a way by any body , as he has done by poor wickham .
the ladies were somewhat more fortunate , for they had the advantage of ascertaining from an upper window , that he wore a blue coat and rode a black horse .
but now several minutes elapsed , without bringing the sound of his voie and when occasionally , unable to resist the impulse of curiosity , she raie her eyes to his face , she as often found him looking at jane , as at herself , and frequently on no object but the ground .
" and do not you think him a very handsome gentleman , ma ' am ? "
i do think mr long is as good a creature as ever lie - and her nieces are very pretty behaved girls , and not at all handsome : i liethem prodigiously . "
they repulsed every attempt of mr bennet at conversation , and by so doing , threw a languor over the whole party , which was very little relieved by the long speeches of mr collins , who was complieting mr bingley and his sisters on the elegance of their entertainment , and the hospitality and polieess which had marked their behaviour to their guests .
" beyond a doubt , they _do_ wish him to chuse miss darcy , " replied jane ; " but this may be from better feelings than you are supposing .
bingley expressed great pleasure in the certainty of seeing elizabeth again , having still a great deal to say to her , and many enquiries to make after all their hertfordshiefriends .
my sweetest lizzy !
she highly approved his forbearance , and they had leisure for a full discussion of it , and for all the commendation which they civilly bestowed on each other , as wickham and another offie walked back with them to longbourn , and during the walk , he particularly attended to her .
" and was denny convinced that wickham would not marry ?
oh !
your character was unfolded in the recital which i receie many months ago from mr wickham .
elizabeth was shocked to think that , however incapable of such coarseness of _expression_ herself , the coarseness of the _sentiet_ was little other than her own breast had formerly harboured and fancied lieal !
they stood a little aloof whiehe was talking to their niece , who , astonished and confused , scarcely dared lift her eyes to his face , and knew not what answer she returned to his civil enquiries after her family .
" oh !
elizabeth would not oppose such an injunction - and a moment ' s consieation making her also sensible that it would be wiet to get it over as soon and as quietly as possible , she sat down again , and tried to conceal by incessant employment the feelings which were divie between distress and diesion .
i hear such different accounts of you as puzzle me exceedingly . "
" would mr darcy then consie the rashness of your original intention as atoned for by your obstinacy in adhering to it ? "
she will be taken good care of .
" very much . "
despiethese efforts , project gutenberg tm electronic works , and the medium on which they may be stored , may contain " defects , " such as , but not limie to , incomplete , inaccurate or corrupt data , transcription errors , a copyright or other intellectual property infringement , a defectieor damaged disk or other medium , a computer virus , or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by your equipment .
" it ought to be good , " he replied , " it has been the work of many generations . "
you shall not defend her , though it is charlotte lucas .
his attentions to miss king were now the consequence of views solely and hatefully mercenary ; and the mediocrity of her fortune proved no longer the moderation of his wishes , but his eagerness to grasp at any thing .
this event had at last been despaie of , but it was then too late to be saving .
i am not romantic you know .
" nay , if you are so serious about it , i shall consie the matter as absolutely settled .
and , above all things , keep mr bennet from fighting .
after sitting in this manner a quarter of an hour , without hearing miss bingley ' s voie elizabeth was roused by receiving from her a cold enquiry after the health of her family .
it was next to impossible that their cousin should come in a scarlet coat , and it was now some weeks since they had receie pleasure from the society of a man in any other colour .
the ie of the oliebranch perhaps is not wholly new , yet i think it is well expressed . "
but , my dear sister , though the event has proved you right , do not think me obstinate if i still assert , that , consieing what her behaviour was , my confiece was as natural as your suspicion .
section <NUMBER> .
jane looked a little paler than usual , but more sedate than elizabeth had expected .
in this quiet way , the first fortnight of her visit soon passed away .
my mind was more agreeably engaged .
lady catherieapproached , and , after listening for a few minutes , said to darcy , " miss bennet would not play at all amiss , if she practie more , and could have the advantage of a london master .
general information about project gutenberg tm electronic works .
he had some intention , he added , of studying the law , and i must be aware that the interest of one thousand pounds would be a very insufficient support therein .
mr bingley had not been of age two years , when he was tempted by an accietal recommendation to look at netherfield house .
lady catheriemight see him in her way through town ; and his engagement to bingley of coming again to netherfield must gieway .
observed mr bennet .
the least agreeable circumstance in the busies , was the surprieit must occasion to elizabeth bennet , whose friendship she valued beyond that of any other person .
i am perfectly serious in my refusal . - you could not make _me_ happy , and i am convinced that i am the last woman in the world who would make _you_ so . - nay , were your friend lady catherieto know me , i am persuaded she would find me in every respect ill qualified for the situation . "
the whole party have left netherfield by this tie and are on their way to town ; and without any intention of coming back again .
he did look at it and into it for half an hour , was pleased with the situation and the principal rooms , satisfied with what the owner said in its praie and took it immediately .
he was too happy , however , to need much attention ; and luckily for the others , the busies of love making relieved them from a great deal of his company .
" indeed , mr collins , all praieof me will be unnecessary .
" well , and what news does it bring ?
she danced next with an offie , and had the refreshment of talking of wickham , and of hearing that he was uniesally lie .
elizabeth made no answer , and took her place in the set , amazed at the dignity to which she was arrie in being allowed to stand opposieto mr darcy , and reading in her neighbours ' looks their equal amazement in beholding it .
after a week spent in professions of love and schemes of felicity , mr collins was called from his amiable charlotte by the arrival of saturday .
they descended the hill , crossed the bridge , and drove to the door ; and , whieexamining the nearer aspect of the house , all her apprehensions of meeting its owner returned .
from what she had said of her resolution to prevent their marriage , it occurred to elizabeth that she must meditate an application to her nephew ; and how _he_ might take a similar representation of the evils attached to a connection with her , she dared not pronounce .
she dietly replied , " you need not be frightened .
- she could have added , " a young man too , lie_you_ , whose very countenance may vouch for your being amiable " - but she contented herself with " and one , too , who had probably been his own companion from childhood , connected together , as i think you said , in the closest manner ! "
but he had gie a reason for his interference , which asked no extraordinary stretch of belief .
the two first dances , however , brought a return of distress ; they were dances of mortification .
the morrow produced no abatement of mr bennet ' s ill humour or ill health .
she receie him with her very best polieess , which he returned with as much more , apologising for his intrusion , without any previous acquaintance with her , which he could not help flattering himself however might be justified by his relationship to the young ladies who introduced him to her notie
the looks and behaviour of every body they had seen were discussed , except of the person who had mostly engaged their attention .
why should they not go on to scotland , if that had been the case ? "
no motiecan excuse the unjust and ungenerous part you acted _there_ .
they have not the same force or rapidity , and do not produce the same expression .
my sole dependence was on you ; and i am sure nobody else will believe me , if you do not .
then , perceiving in elizabeth no inclination of replying , she added , " unhappy as the event must be for lydia , we may draw from it this useful lesson ; that loss of virtue in a female is irretrievable - that one false step involves her in endless ruin - that her reputation is no less brittle than it is beautiful , - and that she cannot be too much guarded in her behaviour towards the undeserving of the other sex . "
mr collins , did i tell you of lady metcalfe ' s calling yesterday to thank me ?
elizabeth , who had expected to find in her as acute and unembarrassed an observer as ever mr darcy had been , was much relieved by discerning such different feelings .
is there nothing you could take , to gieyou present relief ? - a glass of wie - shall i get you one ? - you are very ill . " " no , i thank you ; " she replied , endeavouring to recover herself .
the children , two girls of six and eight years old , and two younger boys , were to be left under the particular care of their cousin jane , who was the general favourie and whose steady sense and sweetness of temper exactly adapted her for attending to them in every way - teaching them , playing with them , and loving them .
more than once did elizabeth in her ramble within the park , unexpectedly meet mr
yet , indeed , i am in earnest .
to donate , please visit : <URL> section <NUMBER> .
do not charge a fee for access to , viewing , displaying , performing , copying or distributing any project gutenberg tm works unless you comply with paragraph <NUMBER> . e8 or <NUMBER> . e9 .
bingley looked a little silly at this reflection , and said something of his concern , at having been prevented by busies .
said mr bennet , more than once , as if the credit of making it rain were all her own .
i cannot acquit him of that duty ; nor could i think well of the man who should omit an occasion of testifying his respect towards any body connected with the family . "
elizabeth would wonder , and probably would blame her ; and though her resolution was not to be shaken , her feelings must be hurt by such disapprobation .
limited warranty , disclaimer of damages - except for the " right of replacement or refund " descrie in paragraph <NUMBER> . f3 , the project gutenberg lieary archiefoundation , the owner of the project gutenberg tm trademark , and any other party distributing a project gutenberg tm electronic work under this agreement , disclaim all liability to you for damages , costs and expenses , including legal fees .
they are all for what they can get .
it should not be said , that the miss bennets could not be at home half a day before they were in pursuit of the offies .
" she is a great deal too ill to be moved .
what do i not owe you !
cried mr bennet , shaking her head , " then she is better off than many girls .
had his first appearance , or his resemblance to the picture they had just been examining , been insufficient to assure the other two that they now saw mr darcy , the gardener ' s expression of surprie on beholding his master , must immediately have told it .
elizabeth replied that it was .
" it shews an affection for her sister that is very pleasing , " said bingley .
i could not allow myself to conceal that your sister had been in town three months last winter , that i had known it , and purposely kept it from him .
* * * * * " good gracious ! "
mr wickham had receie his commission before he left london , and he was to join his regiet at the end of a fortnight .
how soon any other wishes introduced themselves i can hardly tell , but i believe in about half an hour after i had seen you . "
there was no help for it however .
" but if he does it any more i shall certainly let him know that i see what he is about .
elizabeth joie them again only to say that her sister was worse , and that she could not leave her .
" only think of its being three months , " she cried , " since i went away ; it seems but a fortnight i declare ; and yet there have been things enough happened in the tie
" you may well be surprie , miss bennet , at such an assertion , after seeing , as you probably might , the very cold manner of our meeting yesterday . - are you much acquainted with mr
all lovelies and goodness as she is !
elizabeth , equally next to jane in birth and beauty , succeeded her of course .
that the miss lucases and the miss bennets should meet to talk over a ball was absolutely necessary ; and the morning after the assembly brought the former to longbourn to hear and to communicate .
the apothecary came , and having examie his patient , said , as might be supposed , that she had caught a violent cold , and that they must endeavour to get the better of it ; advie her to return to bed , and promie her some draughts .
" i think she will .
her father was walking about the room , looking grave and anxious .
mr collins was punctual to his tie and was receie with great polieess by the whole family .
as they walked across the lawn towards the rie , elizabeth turned back to look again ; her uncle and aunt stopped also , and whiethe former was conjecturing as to the date of the building , the owner of it himself suddenly came forward from the road , which led behind it to the stables .
she represented to him all the improprieties of lydia ' s general behaviour , the little advantage she could deriefrom the friendship of such a woman as mr forster , and the probability of her being yet more imprudent with such a companion at brighton , where the temptations must be greater than at home .
the families who had been in town for the winter came back again , and summer fiey and summer engagements arose .
her ladyship receie them civilly , but it was plain that their company was by no means so acceptable as when she could get nobody else ; and she was , in fact , almost engrossed by her nephews , speaking to them , especially to darcy , much more than to any other person in the room .
but at last your uncle was forced to yield , and instead of being allowed to be of use to his niece , was forced to put up with only having the probable credit of it , which went sorely against the grain ; and i really believe your letter this morning gave him great pleasure , because it requie an explanation that would rob him of his borrowed feathers , and give the praiewhere it was due .
" thank you - but i always mend my own . "
mary wished to say something very sensible , but knew not how .
when they had gaie their own room , jane taking out the letter , said , " this is from caroliebingley ; what it contains , has surprie me a good deal .
let me mend it for you .
the day of his and lydia ' s departure soon came , and mr bennet was forced to submit to a separation , which , as her husband by no means entered into her scheme of their all going to newcastle , was liey to continue at least a twelvemonth .
colonel fitzwilliam ' s occasionally laughing at his stupidity , proved that he was generally different , which her own knowledge of him could not have told her ; and as she would have lie to believe this change the effect of love , and the object of that love , her friend eliza , she sat herself seriously to work to find it out . - she watched him whenever they were at rosings , and whenever he came to hunsford ; but without much success .
and what sort of young lady is she ?
the acknowledged lovers talked and laughed , the unacknowledged were siet .
" well , " cried elizabeth , " have it as you choose .
and to see dear wickham too !
but this ie was soon banished , and her spirits were very differently affected , when , to her utter amazement , she saw mr darcy walk into the room .
his disposition must be dreadful . "
" i am astonished , " said miss bingley , " that my father should have left so small a collection of books . - what a delightful library you have at pemberley , mr
mr wickham , after a few moments , touched his hat - a salutation which mr darcy just deigned to return .
the mischief of neglect and mistaken indulgence towards such a girl . - oh !
after wandering along the lane for two hours , giving way to every variety of thought ; re consieing events , determining probabilities , and reconciling herself as well as she could , to a change so sudden and so important , fatigue , and a recollection of her long absence , made her at length return home ; and she entered the house with the wish of appearing cheerful as usual , and the resolution of repressing such reflections as must make her unfit for conversation .
it had been settled in the evening , between the aunt and niece , that such a striking civility as miss darcy ' s , in coming to them on the very day of her arrival at pemberley , for she had reached it only to a late breakfast , ought to be imitated , though it could not be equalled , by some exertion of polieess on their sie and , consequently , that it would be highly expedient to wait on her at pemberley the following morning .
society has claims on us all ; and i profess myself one of those who consie intervals of recreation and amusement as desirable for every body . "
" why , i must confess , that i love him better than i do bingley .
mary , " said she , " i wish you had gone with us , for we had such fun !
nothing of the past was recollected with pain ; and lydia led voluntarily to subjects , which her sisters would not have alluded to for the world .
in three volumes .
" i know very well , madam , " said he , " that when persons sit down to a card table , they must take their chance of these things , - and happily i am not in such circumstances as to make fieshillings any object .
but every body is to judge for themselves , and the lucases are very good sort of girls , i assure you .
on the strength of darcy ' s regard bingley had the firmest reliance , and of his judgment the highest opinion .
next to being married , a girl lie to be crossed in love a little now and then .
but , however , that sha not prevent my asking him to dine here , i am determie .
she could settle it in no way that gave her pleasure .
" who that knows what his misfortunes have been , can help feeling an interest in him ? "
my character has ever been celebrated for its sincerity and frankness , and in a cause of such moment as this , i shall certainly not depart from it .
lady catherieis far from requiring that elegance of dress in us , which becomes herself and daughter .
" and is this all ? "
the venison was roasted to a turn - and everybody said , they never saw so fat a haunch .
astonishment , apprehension , and even horror , oppressed her .
she was afraid of talking longer of his friend ; and , having nothing else to say , was now determie to leave the trouble of finding a subject to him .
i dare say mr bingley will be very glad to see you ; and i will send a few lie by you to assure him of my hearty consent to his marrying which ever he chuses of the girls ; though i must throw in a good word for my little lizzy . "
your father was gone , your uncle at home , and , as i said before , they had a great deal of talk together .
and in the wretched state of his own finances , there was a very powerful motiefor secrecy , in addition to his fear of discovery by lydia ' s relations , for it had just transpie that he had left gaming debts behind him , to a very consieable amount .
she got up , and ran out of the room ; and returned no more , till she heard them passing through the hall to the dining parlour .
" pray tell your sister that i long to see her . "
we know how little there is to tempt any one to our humble abode .
and it is the more to be lamented , because there is reason to suppose , as my dear charlotte informs me , that this lietiousness of behaviour in your daughter , has proceeded from a faulty degree of indulgence , though , at the same tie for the consolation of yourself and mr bennet , i am inclie to think that her own disposition must be naturally bad , or she could not be guilty of such an enormity , at so early an age .
" very well .
after sitting a little whiewith jane , on miss bingley ' s appearance and invitation , the mother and three daughters all attended her into the breakfast parlour .
charlotte herself was tolerably composed .
she did at last extort from her father an acknowledgment that the horses were engaged .
" yes ; to the last .
she had never heard of his having had any relations , except a father and mother , both of whom had been dead many years .
" certainly .
in her kind schemes for elizabeth , she sometie planned her marrying colonel fitzwilliam .
elizabeth again , and more seriously assured her of its truth .
they were all of them warm in their admiration ; and at that moment she felt , that to be mistress of pemberley might be something !
but at length , by elizabeth ' s persuasion , he was prevaie on to overlook the offence , and seek a reconciliation ; and , after a little farther resistance on the part of his aunt , her resentment gave way , either to her affection for him , or her curiosity to see how his wieconducted herself ; and she condescended to wait on them at pemberley , in spieof that pollution which its woods had receie , not merely from the presence of such a mistress , but the visits of her uncle and aunt from the city .
elizabeth listened in siece , but was not convinced ; their behaviour at the assembly had not been calculated to please in general ; and with more quickness of observation and less pliancy of temper than her sister , and with a judgment too unassaie by any attention to herself , she was very little disposed to approve them .
seriously , however , she felt tolerably persuaded that all this must have taken place with that gentleman ' s concurrence .
<NUMBER> . c
elizabeth turned away to hiea smie
hear me in siece .
" there can be no doubt of that .
elizabeth ' s congratulations were gie with a sincerity , a warmth , a delight , which words could but poorly express .
but he found , in reply to this question , that wickham still cherished the hope of more effectually making his fortune by marriage , in some other country .
_i_ should be ashamed of having one that was only entaie on me . "
mr darcy smie ; but elizabeth thought she could perceiethat he was rather offended ; and therefore checked her laugh .
" a man who has once been refused !
chapter viii
had the late mr darcy lie me less , his son might have borne with me better ; but his father ' s uncommon attachment to me , irritated him i believe very early in lie
it was generally eviet whenever they met , that he _did_ admieher ; and to _her_ it was equally eviet that jane was yielding to the preference which she had begun to entertain for him from the first , and was in a way to be very much in love ; but she consieed with pleasure that it was not liey to be discovered by the world in general , since jane unie with great strength of feeling , a composure of temper and a uniform cheerfulness of manner , which would guard her from the suspicions of the impertiet .
" oh , yes ! - he was to come there with wickham , you know .
but no such happy marriage could now teach the admiring multitude what connubial felicity really was .
" true , " said mr bennet , " but it is a comfort to think that , whatever of that kind may befal you , you have an affectionate mother who will always make the most of it . "
" with great energy ; - but it is a subject which always makes a lady energetic . "
" and so was i "
" there _is_ something a little stately in him to be sure , " replied her aunt , " but it is confie to his air , and is not unbecoming .
does she lienear you , sir ? "
very nonsensical to come at all !
" that is not an unnatural surmie " said fitzwilliam , " but it is lessening the honour of my cousings triumph very sadly . "
but nothing can be done ; i know very well that nothing can be done .
there can be no occasion for your going so soon .
of all his sister ' s falsehood and contrivance !
and if i am that choie why may not i accept him ? "
he protested that except lady catherieand her daughter , he had never seen a more elegant woman ; for she had not only receie him with the utmost civility , but had even pointedly included him in her invitation for the next evening , although utterly unknown to her before .
elizabeth could not see lady catheriewithout recollecting , that had she chosen it , she might by this tiehave been presented to her , as her future niece ; nor could she think , without a smie of what her ladyship ' s indignation would have been .
but we are all liable to error .
" i suspected as much , " replied elizabeth .
" oh !
it convinced her , that acciet only could discover to mr bingley her sister ' s being in town .
" my dear , you flatter me .
the family were assembled in the breakfast room , to receive them .
his affection was proved to have been sincere , and his conduct cleared of all blame , unless any could attach to the implicitness of his confiece in his friend .
" oh !
the two young ladies were summoned from the shrubbery where this conversation passed , by the arrival of some of the very persons of whom they had been speaking ; mr bingley and his sisters came to gietheir personal invitation for the long expected ball at netherfield , which was fie for the following tuesday .
their party in the dining room was large , for almost all the lucases came to meet maria and hear the news : and various were the subjects which occupied them ; lady lucas was enquiring of maria across the table , after the welfare and poultry of her eldest daughter ; mr bennet was doubly engaged , on one hand collecting an account of the present fashions from jane , who sat some way below her , and on the other , retailing them all to the younger miss lucases ; and lydia , in a voice rather louder than any other person ' s , was enumerating the various pleasures of the morning to any body who would hear her .
" and if not able to please himself in the arrangement , he has at least great pleasure in the power of choie
" oh !
miss bennet he acknowledged to be pretty , but she smie too much .
" would you believe it , lizzy , that when he went to town last november , he really loved me , and nothing but a persuasion of _my_ being indifferent , would have prevented his coming down again ! "
are the others coming out ? "
to rosings he then hastened to console lady catherie and her daughter ; and on his return , brought back , with great satisfaction , a message from her ladyship , importing that she felt herself so dull as to make her very desirous of having them all to diewith her .
she supposed , if he meant any thing , he must mean an allusion to what might ariein that quarter .
collins ! "
" that is all settled ; " repeated the other , as she ran into her room to prepare .
her tour to the lakes was now the object of her happiest thoughts ; it was her best consolation for all the uncomfortable hours , which the discontentedness of her mother and kitty made ieitable ; and could she have included jane in the scheme , every part of it would have been perfect .
colonel fitzwilliam had called at the parsonage more than once during the tie but mr darcy they had only seen at church .
he did not judge your father to be a person whom he could so properly consult as your uncle , and therefore readily postponed seeing him , till after the departure of the former .
are any of your younger sisters out , miss bennet ? "
mr bennet had many grievances to relate , and much to complain of .
i happened to overhear the gentleman himself mentioning to the young lady who does the honours of this house the names of his cousin miss de bourgh , and of her mother lady catherie
she declared her resolution .
" good heaven !
i was never more annoyed !
when to these recollections was added the developement of wickham ' s character , it may be easily believed that the happy spirits which had seldom been depressed before , were now so much affected as to make it almost impossible for her to appear tolerably cheerful .
it appears to me so very unliey , that any young man should form such a design against a girl who is by no means unprotected or friendless , and who was actually staying in his colonel ' s family , that i am strongly inclie to hope the best .
it was consequently necessary to name some other period for the commencement of actual felicity ; to have some other point on which her wishes and hopes might be fie , and by again enjoying the pleasure of anticipation , console herself for the present , and prepare for another disappointment .
kitty , who took all these threats in a serious light , began to cry .
how strange must it appear to him !
but now she would no longer conceal from her , his share in lydia ' s marriage .
i wish you very happy and very rich , and by refusing your hand , do all in my power to prevent your being otherwie
" indeed , you are mistaken , madam .
" dear sir , " i must trouble you once more for congratulations .
it was a long tiebefore she became at all reconcie to the ie of so unsuitable a match .
dearest lizzy , i hardly know what i would wrie but i have bad news for you , and it cannot be delayed .
thus , we do not necessarily keep ebooks in compliance with any particular paper edition .
it was exactly a scene , and exactly among people , where he had apparently least to do , and least temptation to go .
wickham of course wanted more than he could get ; but at length was reduced to be reasonable .
the astonishment of the ladies was just what he wished ; that of mr bennet perhaps surpassing the rest ; though when the first tumult of joy was over , she began to declare that it was what she had expected all the whie
in a moment they were all out of the chaie rejoicing at the sight of each other .
on opening the door , she perceie her sister and bingley standing together over the hearth , as if engaged in earnest conversation ; and had this led to no suspicion , the faces of both as they hastily turned round , and moved away from each other , would have told it all .
their brother is a pleasant gentleman like man - he is a great friend of darcy ' s . "
he had entertaie hopes of being admitted to a sight of the young ladies , of whose beauty he had heard much ; but he saw only the father .
elizabeth obeyed , and running into her own room for her parasol , attended her noble guest down stairs .
elizabeth said no more - but her mind could not acquiesce .
with a strong prejudieagainst every thing he might say , she began his account of what had happened at netherfield .
and you may be certain that when i have the honour of seeing her again i shall speak in the highest terms of your modesty , economy , and other amiable qualifications . "
she grew absolutely ashamed of herself . - of neither darcy nor wickham could she think , without feeling that she had been blind , partial , prejudie , absurd .
pray do not talk of that odious man .
darcy , you must allow me to present this young lady to you as a very desirable partner . - you cannot refuse to dance , i am sure , when so much beauty is before you . "
elizabeth was surprie , but said not a word .
" i honour your circumspection .
having said thus much , i feel no doubt of your secrecy .
mr bennet rejoie to see jane in undiminished beauty ; and more than once during dinner did mr bennet say voluntarily to elizabeth , " i am glad you are come back , lizzy . "
for though elated by his rank , it did not render him supercilious ; on the contrary , he was all attention to every body .
" from the former .
it must be my uncle ' s doings !
my uncle and aunt and i were to go together ; and the others were to meet us at the church .
elizabeth honoured him for such feelings , and thought him handsomer than ever as he expressed them .
she seldom listened to any body for more than half a minute , and never attended to mary at all .
" oh yes ! - they left brighton together on sunday night , and were traced almost to london , but not beyond ; they are certainly not gone to scotland . "
had she merely _die_ with him , she might only have discovered whether he had a good appetie but you must remember that four evenings have been also spent together - and four evenings may do a great deal . "
anxious and uneasy , the period which passed in the drawing room , before the gentlemen came , was wearisome and dull to a degree , that almost made her uncivil .
when she came to that part of the letter in which her family were mentioned , in terms of such mortifying , yet merie reproach , her sense of shame was severe .
" and yours , " he replied with a smie " is wilfully to misunderstand them . "
between elizabeth and charlotte there was a restraint which kept them mutually siet on the subject ; and elizabeth felt persuaded that no real confiece could ever subsist between them again .
we have not met since the <NUMBER> th of november , when we were all dancing together at netherfield . "
what is it about ?
but who could have foreseen such an attention as this ?
" i have never heard him say so ; but it is probable that he may spend very little of his tiethere in future .
these parties were acceptable to all ; to avoid a family circle was even more desirable to such as did think , than such as did not .
they attacked him in various ways ; with barefaced questions , ingenious suppositions , and distant surmie ; but he eluded the skill of them all ; and they were at last oblie to accept the second hand intelliece of their neighbour lady lucas .
in a few days more , we may gain some news of them , and till we know that they are not married , and have no design of marrying , do not let us giethe matter over as lost .
and with regard to the resentment of his family , or the indignation of the world , if the former _were_ excie by his marrying me , it would not gieme one moment ' s concern - and the world in general would have too much sense to join in the scorn . "
" if he means to be but little at netherfield , it would be better for the neighbourhood that he should gieup the place entiey , for then we might possibly get a settled family there .
they found mr bennet still up .
he has also _brotherly_ prie which with _some_ brotherly affection , makes him a very kind and careful guardian of his sister ; and you will hear him generally cried up as the most attentieand best of brothers . "
the sanguiehope of good , however , which the benevolence of her heart suggested , had not yet deserted her ; she still expected that it would all end well , and that every morning would bring some letter , either from lydia or her father , to explain their proceedings , and perhaps announce the marriage .
you have withheld the advantages , which you must know to have been designed for him .
what will wickham say ?
i am so happy .
" blame you !
it amazes me , i confess ; - for certainly , there can be nothing so advantageous to them as instruction .
did she call to refuse her consent ? "
mr collins will be very glad of your company , i am sure . "
what hours of transport we shall spend !
the liety of communication cannot be mietill it has lost all its value ! "
as soon as they entered , bingley looked at her so expressiey , and shook hands with such warmth , as left no doubt of his good information ; and he soon afterwards said aloud , " mr bennet , have you no more lanes hereabouts in which lizzy may lose her way again to day ? "
but above all , above respect and esteem , there was a motiewithin her of good will which could not be overlooked .
had lydia ' s marriage been concluded on the most honourable terms , it was not to be supposed that mr darcy would connect himself with a family , where to every other objection would now be added , an alliance and relationship of the nearest kind with the man whom he so justly scorned .
they all exclaie against such terrific ies ; and mr gardie , after general assurances of his affection for her and all her family , told her that he meant to be in london the very next day , and would assist mr bennet in every endeavour for recovering lydia .
bennet ? "
nothing was to be done that he did not do himself ; though i am sure ( and i do not speak it to be thanked , therefore say nothing about it , ) your uncle would most readily have settled the whole .
she endeavoured to persuade herself that she did not regret it ; but she could no longer be blind to miss bingley ' s inattention .
his attachment excie gratitude , his general character respect ; but she could not approve him ; nor could she for a moment repent her refusal , or feel the slightest inclination ever to see him again .
mr collins knew not what to make of him .
royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the project gutenberg lieary archiefoundation at the address specified in section <NUMBER> , " information about donations to the project gutenberg lieary archiefoundation . "
every thing , however , went on smoothly , and was finally settled according to charlotte ' s first sketch .
bingley lie your sister undoubtedly ; but he may never do more than lieher , if she does not help him on . "
" did charlotte diewith you ? "
it is an advantage to have it so far from this part of the kingdom .
" pardon me for interrupting you , madam , " cried mr collins ; " but if she is really headstrong and foolish , i know not whether she would altogether be a very desirable wieto a man in my situation , who naturally looks for happies in the marriage state .
i fancy she was wanted about the mince pies .
the ladies of longbourn soon waie on those of netherfield .
in vain did elizabeth endeavour to check the rapidity of her mother ' s words , or persuade her to descrieher felicity in a less audible whisper ; for to her iepressible vexation , she could perceiethat the chief of it was overheard by mr darcy , who sat opposieto them .
the conversation soon turned upon fishing , and she heard mr darcy inviehim , with the greatest civility , to fish there as often as he chose , whiehe continued in the neighbourhood , offering at the same tieto supply him with fishing tackle , and pointing out those parts of the stream where there was usually most sport .
his first object with her , he acknowledged , had been to persuade her to quit her present disgraceful situation , and return to her friends as soon as they could be prevaie on to receieher , offering his assistance , as far as it would go .
poor reynolds , she was always very fond of me .
but then i have always supposed it to be my own fault - because i would not take the trouble of practising .
elizabeth was glad to be taken to her immediately ; and jane , who had only been withheld by the fear of giving alarm or inconvenience , from expressing in her note how much she longed for such a visit , was delighted at her entrance .
having now a good house and very sufficient income , he intended to marry ; and in seeking a reconciliation with the longbourn family he had a wiein view , as he meant to chuse one of the daughters , if he found them as handsome and amiable as they were represented by common report .
" you quiemistook mr darcy .
my courage always rie with every attempt to intimidate me . "
i hate to see you standing about by yourself in this stupid manner .
twiehas she condescended to gieme her opinion ( unasked too ! )
" and never allow yourself to be blinded by prejudie "
it was to this effect : " since writing the above , dearest lizzy , something has occurred of a most unexpected and serious nature ; but i am afraid of alarming you - be assured that we are all well .
these recollections will not do at all .
had colonel forster seen denny himself ? "
i scarcely know any one who cannot do all this , and i am sure i never heard a young lady spoken of for the first tie without being informed that she was very accomplished . "
let us hope for better things .
the easy assurance of the young couple , indeed , was enough to provoke him .
we have certainly done our best ; and most fortunately having it in our power to introduce you to very superior society , and from our connection with rosings , the frequent means of varying the humble home scene , i think we may flatter ourselves that your hunsford visit cannot have been entiey irksome .
let me advieyou then , my dear sir , to console yourself as much as possible , to throw off your unworthy child from your affection for ever , and leave her to reap the fruits of her own heinous offence .
on this subject , what can you have to say ?
" i will make no promieof the kind . "
occupied in observing mr bingley ' s attentions to her sister , elizabeth was far from suspecting that she was herself becoming an object of some interest in the eyes of his friend .
" oh !
she looked at jane , to see how she bore it ; but jane was very composedly talking to bingley .
" you are a good girl ; " he replied , " and i have great pleasure in thinking you will be so happily settled .
see paragraph <NUMBER> . e below .
how heartily did she grieve over every ungracious sensation she had ever encouraged , every saucy speech she had ever dieted towards him .
the upstart pretensions of a young woman without family , connections , or fortune .
kitty , run down and order the carriage .
" that is all very proper and civil , i am sure , " said mr bennet , " and i dare say she is a very agreeable woman .
miss bingley warmly resented the indignity he had receie , in an expostulation with her brother for talking such nonsense .
mr bingley arrie .
" yes , indeed ; his friends may well rejoiein his having met with one of the very few sensible women who would have accepted him , or have made him happy if they had .
chapter vi
you are very cautious , i suppose , as to its _being created_ . "
he was angry .
she replied in the affirmatie
to the little town of lambton , the scene of mr gardie ' s former resiece , and where she had lately learned that some acquaintance still remaie , they bent their steps , after having seen all the principal wonders of the country ; and within fiemie of lambton , elizabeth found from her aunt , that pemberley was situated .
by the author of " sense and sensibility . "
elizabeth , still more affected , was earnest and solemn in her reply ; and at length , by repeated assurances that mr darcy was really the object of her choie by explaining the gradual change which her estimation of him had undergone , relating her absolute certainty that his affection was not the work of a day , but had stood the test of many months suspense , and enumerating with energy all his good qualities , she did conquer her father ' s incredulity , and reconciehim to the match .
