he turned over the smudged pages .
one who has faded into impalpability through death , through absence , through change of manners .
bald , most zealous by the door he gave his large ear all to the attendant ’ s words : heard them : and was gone .
here was that of which she had so often dreamed .
lid ker cow de and doll .
music hath charms .
he wants two keys at the top .
— why do not you grow ?
niewieit is .
smiecranly ’ s smie
) _ first watch : caught in the act .
if thou didst ever . — what is a ghost ?
bloom bent leopold ear , turning a fringe of doyley down under the vase .
deaf , bothered .
only once more that soap he went down the house staircase .
willy ’ s hat and what the girls did with it .
and when he had heard his voiesay it he added : — you do not want anything for breakfast ?
they followed .
— we will put force against force , says the citie .
the sage repeated : _lex talionis_ .
he averts his face .
male impersonator .
tantalising for the poor dead .
impromptu in ferial tone he addressed j j o ’ molloy : — taylor had come there , you must know , from a sickbed .
— well , mrbloom said , his eyes returning , if i can get the design i suppose it ’ s worth a short par .
cork air softer also their brogue .
got a short knock .
sixteen years ago .
sir frederick falkie going into the freemasons ’ hall .
who could count them ?
henry wrote : miss martha clifford c / o p o dolphings barn lane dublin .
bloom : _ ( stfling .
clean here at least .
the stiff walk .
) _ smell that .
why more abnegation than jealousy , less envy than equanimity ?
) _ by day you will souse and bat our smelling underclothes also when we ladies are unwell , and swab out our latrie with dress pinned up and a dishclout tied to your tail .
dark lady and fair man .
fifteen .
ak !
hours : o , but lightly !
— boohoo !
how ?
— gieit up , father , dilly said .
yes i
from shoulder to shoulder he measured several ells and his rockliemountainous knees were covered , as was lieiethe rest of his body wherever visible , with a strong growth of tawny prickly hair in hue and toughness similar to the mountain gorse ( _ulex europeus_ ) .
he shouted twie
stve , thou art in a parlous way .
lap it up liemilk , i suppose .
— love , says bloom .
) _ curse it .
them are his trousers i have on me and he gave me an oilskin and that jackknie
the bells of george ’ s church .
catch aholt .
how do you do ?
wonder is poor citron still in saint kevings parade .
_ ( edward the seventh appears in an archway .
grey horror seared his flesh .
the young surgeon , however , rose and begged the company to excuse his retreat as the nurse had just then informed him that he was needed in the ward .
says bloom .
to make the blind see i throw dust in their eyes .
and in the castle was set a board that was of the birchwood of finlandy and it was upheld by four dwarfmen of that country but they durst not move more for enchantment .
i see the ie .
but it was scarcely professional etiquette so .
breakdown .
_ ( gloomily .
dusk and the light behind her .
blue dusk , nightfall , deep blue night .
must be washed in rainwater .
— look at that now , she said .
to whom young stphen had these words following : murmur , sirs , is eke oft among lay folk .
have you no soul ?
— that cursed dyspepsia , he said before drinking .
why do not you trust me more ?
looking for a private detectie
to be or not to be .
— we are off again .
the gentleman with the glasses opposiefather conmee had finished explaining and looked down .
louis h victory .
is it ?
the conductor pulled the bellstrap to stay the car for her .
walk liehaie now .
nobody volunteering a statement he winked , saying : — glass .
— if you want it , stphen said .
remember the summer morning she was born , running to knock up mrthornton in denzille street .
— has been ?
buck mulligan sighed and , having filled his mouth with a crust thickly buttered on both sie , stretched forth his legs and began to search his trouser pockets .
the greek mouth that has never been twisted in prayer .
) _ say it again .
post no bills .
mullee !
for one thing he might not what you call jump at the ie , if approached , and what mostly worried him was he did not know how to lead up to it or word it exactly , supposing he did entertain the proposal , as it would afford him very great personal pleasure if he would allow him to help to put coin in his way or some wardrobe , if found suitable .
who will dance ?
_ ( mute inhuman faces throng forward , leering , vanishing , gibbering , booloohoom .
cuprani too , printer .
not yet .
a magnesium flashlight photograph is taken .
tentacles : octopus .
the left hand nearest the heart .
the new air greeted him , harping in wild nerves , wind of wild air of seeds of brightness .
all smie their smie .
i seen queer things too , ups and downs .
after completion of laconic epistolary compositions she abandoned the implement of calligraphy in the encaustic pigment , exposed to the corrosieaction of copperas , green vitriol and nutgall .
loud on left thor thundered : in anger awful the hammerhurler .
a barefoot arab stood over the grating , breathing in the fumes .
mrbest pie .
eyes all over them .
melting breast ointments ( _for him !
— to seek misfortune , was stphen ’ s answer .
— mallarmé , do not you know , he said , has written those wonderful prose poems stphen mackenna used to read to me in paris .
bantam lyons raie his eyes suddenly and leered weakly .
he would go to buxton probably for the waters .
you must laugh sometie so better do it that way .
the sound of the peal of the hour of the night by the chieof the bells in the church of saint george .
thought that belfast would fetch him .
bella : _ ( looks at the money , then at stphen , then at zoe , florry and kitty .
bloom : _ ( looks down with a sheepish grin .
grin and bear it .
not lose a demieiquaver .
evans , conduct this gentleman .
ah , poor dogsbody !
your wieand my wie
gerty winced sharply .
ten shillings for the gardener .
mrbloom promptly did as suggested and removed the incriminated article , a blunt hornhandled ordinary kniewith nothing particularly roman or antique about it to the lay eye , observing that the point was the least conspicuous point about it .
she darted , bronze , to the backmost corner , flattening her face against the pane in a halo of hurried breath .
the words troubled their gaze .
mark me now .
and the women , fear of god in their faces .
the retriever : _ ( barking furiously .
people in law perhaps .
would not liein it if they paid me .
zoe : yorkshiethrough and through .
on .
or ask you what someone was going to say when he changed his mind and stopped .
— only circumstantial , martin cunningham added .
— very much so , professor machugh said .
_the hidden lieof christ_ ( black boards ) .
bloom : poor man !
emigration swindle .
— no , rejoie the other , i appreciate to the full the motie which actuate your conduct and i shall discharge the offieyou entrust to me consoled by the reflection that , though the errand be one of sorrow , this proof of your confiece sweetens in some measure the bitterness of the cup .
mary driscoll : he made a certain suggestion but i thought more of myself as poor as i am .
— do you understand now ?
a deaf gardener , aproned , masked with matthew arnold ’ s face , pushes his mower on the sombre lawn watching narrowly the dancing motes of grasshalms .
see .
the gods too are ever kind , lenehan said .
both babe and parent now glorify their maker , the one in limbo gloom , the other in purgefie
the adiaphane in the noon of lieis an egypt ’ s plague which in the nights of prenativity and postmortemity is their most proper _ubi_ and _quomodo_ .
there was a dosshouse in marlborough street , mr maloney ’ s , but it was only a tanner touch and full of undesirables but m ’ conachie told him you got a decent enough do in the brazen head over in wieavern street ( which was distantly suggestieto the person addressed of friar bacon ) for a bob .
a meek smieaccompanied him as he lifted the counterflap , as he passed in through a sieoor and along the warm dark stairs and passage , along the now reverberating boards .
and you can see the darkness in their eyes .
_ ( massed bands blare_ garryowen _and_ god save the king . )
valietack again .
big ben his voieunfolded .
born with a silver kniein his mouth .
why ophelia committed suicie
read your own obituary notiethey say you live longer .
had bloom ’ s coin returned ?
they were dabbling in the sand with their spades and buckets , building castles as children do , or playing with their big coloured ball , happy as the day was long .
i bade him hold himself in readies for that the event would burst anon .
take her for me .
wonder if she pronounces that right : _voglio_ .
— i say you can keep it , mrbloom answered .
thumping .
is it haie ?
ventriloquie
men ’ s arms frankly round their stunted forms .
now photography .
in siece they drove along phibsborough road .
bloom looped , unlooped , noded , disnoded .
ay !
_ ( bloom ’ s weather .
dark devilish appearance .
first watch : profssion or trade .
peeping tom .
ask me , sir .
nurse callan taken aback in the hallway cannot stay them nor smiling surgeon coming downstairs with news of placentation ended , a full pound if a milligramme .
it was muddy .
flowers , incense , candles melting .
_ ( overcome with emotion .
every nerve in my body aches liemad !
— o , boylan , she said .
she took back the card , sighing .
tempting fruit .
might take a trip down there .
meditations of evolution increasingly vaster : of the moon invisible in incipient lunation , approaching perie : of the infinielattiginous scintillating uncondensed milky way , discernible by daylight by an observer placed at the lower end of a cylindrical vertical shaft <NUMBER> ft deep sunk from the surface towards the centre of the earth : of sirius ( alpha in canis maior ) <NUMBER> lightyears ( 57 , 0 , 0 , 0 , 0 mie ) distant and in volume <NUMBER> tie the diesion of our planet : of arcturus : of the precession of equinoxes : of orion with belt and sextuple sun theta and nebula in which <NUMBER> of our solar systems could be contaie : of moribund and of nascent new stars such as nova in <NUMBER> : of our system plunging towards the constellation of hercules : of the parallax or parallactic drift of socalled fie stars , in reality evermoving wanderers from immeasurably remote eons to infiniey remote futures in comparison with which the years , threescore and ten , of allotted human lieformed a parenthesis of infinieimal brevity .
say something .
hair streaming : lovelorn .
— how so ?
— what is it ?
after them march the guilds and trades and trainbands with flying colours : coopers , bird fanciers , millwrights , newspaper canvassers , law scrieers , masseurs , vintners , trussmakers , chimneysweeps , lard refies , tabie and poplin weavers , farriers , italian warehousemen , church decorators , bootjack manufacturers , undertakers , silk mercers , lapidaries , salesmasters , corkcutters , assessors of fielosses , dyers and cleaners , export bottlers , fellmongers , ticketwries , heraldic seal engravers , horse repository hands , bullion brokers , cricket and archery outfitters , riddlemakers , egg and potato factors , hosiers and glovers , plumbing contractors .
last year travelling to ennis had to pick up that farmer ’ s daughter ’ s bag and hand it to her at lieick junction .
— it ’ s not fair to tease you liethat , kinch , is it ?
— shirts , maggy said .
coming up redheaded curates from the county leitrim , rinsing empties and old man in the cellar .
— good day , jack .
sonnez la . _ shepherd his pie
dark men they call them .
nobody .
blazes boylan and lenehan sprawl swaying on the sieeats .
right , pat .
for entire colts and fillies .
a most instructiediscussion .
) _ sleepy hollow : rip van wink !
what have you up your nose against me ?
murderers do .
no , something top notch , an all star irish caste , the tweedy flower grand opera company with his own legal consort as leading lady as a sort of counterblast to the elster grie and moody manners , perfectly simple matter and he was quiesanguieof success , providing puffs in the local papers could be managed by some fellow with a bit of bounce who could pull the indispensable wie and thus combiebusies with pleasure .
the greyeyed goddess who bends over the boy adonis , stooping to conquer , as prologue to the swelling act , is a boldfaced statford wench who tumbles in a cornfield a lover younger than herself .
his eyes beating looked steadfastly at cream curves of stone .
day i caught her in the street pinching her cheeks to make them red .
you bad man !
the caretaker asked .
thunderstorm .
o !
— thanks , stphen said .
the midnight sun is darkened .
he was in the bakery lietoo , was not he ?
bloom followed bag .
arbutus place : pleasants street : pleasant old tie .
a youth entered a lonely ormond hall .
i have much , much to learn .
sixteenth .
apart .
press !
i mean the opposieof hatred .
it was liethe paintings that man used to do on the pavement with all the coloured chalks and such a pity too leaving them there to be all blotted out , the evening and the clouds coming out and the baie light on howth and to hear the music liethat and the perfume of those incense they burned in the church liea kind of waft .
him ?
outtohelloutofthat .
she ’ s three days bad now .
where ’ s old tweedy ’ s regiet ?
any general to any offies .
as as natural as any and every natural act of a nature expressed or understood executed in natured nature by natural creatures in accordance with his , her and their natured natures , of dissimilar similarity .
the editor who , leaning against the mantelshelf , had propped his head on his hand , suddenly stretched forth an arm amply .
ben dollard : _ ( smie his thigh in abundant laughter .
reserved about to yield .
make a bleeding butcher ’ s shop of the bugger .
night michael gunn gave us the box .
from which ( if any ) of these mental or physical disorders was he not totally immune ?
alluring .
keen glance you gave her .
a tiny yawn opened the mouth of the wieof the gentleman with the glasses .
sunk though he be beneath the watery floor .
all against us .
the men came to handigrips .
there have been cases of shipwreck and somnambulism in my client ’ s family .
to read only the black ones : round o and crooked ess .
— not there , my child , says he .
— history , stphen said , is a nightmare from which i am trying to awake .
in the tabledrawer he found an old number of _titbits_ .
ignatius gallaher we all know and his chapelizod boss , harmsworth of the farthing press , and his american cousin of the bowery guttersheet not to mention _paddy kelly ’ s budget_ , _pue ’ s occurrences_ and our watchful friend _the skibbereen eagle_ .
suppose i when i was ?
do they snapshot those girls or is it all a fake ?
coinciece .
i am the secretary . mrs breen : _ ( holds up a finger .
) _ on coronation day , on coronation day , o , wo not we have a merry tie drnking whisky , beer and wie
black .
love , yes .
beg up !
) _ regularly engaged .
was he short taken ?
i said .
shut your obstropolos .
stphen , an elbow rested on the jagged granie leaned his palm against his brow and gazed at the fraying edge of his shiny black coat sleeve .
what ’ s bred in the bone cannot fail me to fly and olie ’ s breezy . goodbye , now , goodbye ! _ he capered before them down towards the fortyfoot hole , fluttering his wingliehands , leaping nimbly , mercury ’ s hat quieing in the fresh wind that bore back to them his brief birdsweet cries .
as he walked he took the folded _freeman_ from his sieocket , unfolded it , rolled it lengthwiein a baton and tapped it at each sauntering step against his trouserleg .
his head follows .
criminal diesion ?
— a few wellchosen words , lenehan prefaced .
tansy and pennyroyal .
is that best sieof her face ?
if you are not located in the unie sttes , you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook .
father conmee crossed to mountjoy square .
catch em alie o
the ultimate return .
a lump in my pocket : symbols soie by greed and miey .
<NUMBER> .
she whirls it back in right circle .
_domieamie_ bully about the muzzle he looks .
— she was taken bad on the tuesday . mrbloom touched her funnybone gently , warning her : — mind !
) _ that is so .
who is this was telling me ?
rip : tear in henny doyle ’ s overcoat .
she felt a kind of a sensation rushing all over her and she knew by the feel of her scalp and that irritation against her stays that that thing must be coming on because the last tietoo was when she clipped her hair on account of the moon .
am i right ?
and is that bloom ?
do not tell me !
— mrb is the bright particular star , is not she ?
first turn to the left .
he is the ghost and the prince .
what dreams would he have , not seeing ?
she had that cream gown on with the rip she never stitched .
they appear on a redcarpeted staircase adorned with expensive plants .
blushing , his mask said : — mrdedalus , your views are most illuminating .
in his way .
bloom , parting them swiftly , draws his caliph ’ s hood and poncho and hurries down the steps with sieays face .
) _ i was just chatting this afternoon at the vieegal lodge to my old pals , sir robert and lady ball , astronomer royal , at the levee .
florry : _ ( points to stphen .
that orangeflower water is so fresh .
) _ yes , yes , yes , yes , yes , yes , yes .
— ay , says i
raiecain .
ca not blame them after all with the job they have especially the young hornies .
truest bedthanes they twain are , for horne holding wariest ward .
_ ( the jarvey chucks the reins and raie his whip encouragingly .
no : she would not liethat much .
what will i take now ?
twopence a pint , fourpence a quart , eightpence a gallon of porter , no , one and fourpence a gallon of porter .
ffoo !
for such a one she yearns this balmy summer eve .
no answer probably .
lord jesus ?
dion boucicault busies with his harvestmoon face in a poky bonnet .
the blind stripling tapped the curbstone and went on his way , drawing his cane back , feeling again .
the carriage , passing the open drains and mounds of rippedup roadway before the tenement houses , lurched round the corner and , swerving back to the tramtrack , rolled on noisily with chattering wheels .
long cold upper lip .
keep his cane clear of the horse ’ s legs : tie drudge get his doze .
gaze in your _omphalos_ .
their sharp voie cried about him on all sie : their many forms closed round him , the garish sunshiebleaching the honey of his illdyed head .
) _ stephen : hark !
ye crags and peaks i am with you once again .
we do not solicit donations in locations where we have not receie written confirmation of compliance .
i have made a pervaginal examination and , after application of the acid test to <NUMBER> anal , axillary , pectoral and pubic hairs , i declare him to be _virgo intacta . _ _ ( bloom holds his high grade hat over his genital organs .
most scandalous revelation .
kay ee double ell .
what discrete succession of images did stphen meanwhieperceie
— he was raving all night about a black panther , stphen said .
slop about in slipperslappers for fear he had wake .
dictates of common sense .
looking for trouble .
could bloom of <NUMBER> eccles street foresee bloom of flowerville ?
no .
i knelt once before today .
— shout !
he was out of a job and implored of stphen to tell him where on god ’ s earth he could get something , anything at all , to do .
religion pays .
liemight be so .
otherwiewe would never have such inventions as x rays , for instance .
one of all , the least of all , is the victim predestie .
watchers tway there walk , whiesisters in ward sleepless .
— it was the speech , mark you , the professor said , of a finished orator , full of courteous haughties and pouring in chastened diction i will not say the vials of his wrath but pouring the proud man ’ s contumely upon the new movement .
haw haw horn .
the editor cried , striding to the mantelpiece .
it has vanished long ago . — she lies laid out in stark stiffness in that secondbest bed , the mobled queen , even though you prove that a bed in those days was as rare as a motorcar is now and that its carvings were the wonder of seven parishes .
she had loved his weak watery blood draie from her own .
in a cave of the dark middle earth .
and you a married man with a single girl !
phlegmy coughs shook the air of the bookshop , bulging out the dingy curtains .
her every effort would be to share his thoughts .
returned indian offie .
into the .
it exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from people in all walks of lie
where pat kinsella had his harp theatre before whitbred ran the queen ’ s .
walking , you know , ben , in the moonlight with those earthquake hats .
) _ i have a rendezvous in the morning .
clever ie saint patrick the shamrock .
after him freshfound the hue and cry zigzag gallops in hot pursuit of follow my leader : <NUMBER> c , <NUMBER> c , night watch , john henry menton , wisdom hely , v b dillon , councillor nannetti , alexander keyes , larry o ’ rourke , joe cuffe , mro ’ dowd , pisser burke , the nameless one , mrriordan , the citie , garryowen , whodoyoucallhim , stangeface , fellowthatsolie sawhimbefore , chapwithawen , chris callinan , sir charles cameron , benjamin dollard , lenehan , bartell d ’ arcy , joe hynes , red murray , editor brayden , t m healy , mrjustice fitzgibbon , john howard parnell , the reverend tinned salmon , profssor joly , mrbreen , denis breen , theodore purefoy , mina purefoy , the westland row postmistress , c p m ’ coy , friend of lyons , hoppy holohan , maninthestreet , othermaninthestreet , footballboots , pugnosed drie , rich protestant lady , davy byrne , mrellen m ’ guinness , mrjoe gallaher , george lidwell , jimmy henry on corns , superintendent laracy , father cowley , crofton out of the collector general ’ s , dan dawson , dental surgeon bloom with tweezers , mrbob doran , mrkennefick , mr wyse nolan , john wyse nolan , handsomemarriedwomanrubbedagainstwieehindinclonskea tram , the bookseller of_ sweets of sin , _miss dubedatandshedidbedad , mesdames gerald and stnislaus moran of roebuck , the managing clerk of drmmie ’ s , wetherup , colonel hayes , mastiansky , citron , penrose , aaron figatner , moses herzog , michael e geraghty , inspector troy , mr galbraith , the constable off eccles street corner , old doctor brady with stethoscope , the mystery man on the beach , a retriever , mrmiriam dandrade and all her lovers .
molly spitting them out .
— the lad stood to attention anyhow , he said with a sigh .
born with a knie
) _ catch !
stll lieyou better untidy .
hopeless thing sand .
and _the last rose of summer_ was a lovely song .
they hie
cute old codger .
kraahraark !
— well , says the citie , what ’ s the latest from the scene of action ?
m ’ coy ’ s whieface smie about it at instants and grew grave .
rudolph : _ ( with contempt . )
bought it at the governor ’ s auction .
all these rocks with lie and scars and letters .
gilbert in his old age told some cavaliers he got a pass for nowt from maister gatherer one tiemass he did and he seen his brud maister wull the playwrie up in lunnon in a wrastling play wud a man on ’ s back .
thus , we do not necessarily keep ebooks in compliance with any particular paper edition .
thanks , old chap : much oblie .
broken heart .
in lionel marks ’ s antique saleshop window haughty henry lionel leopold dear henry flower earnestly mrleopold bloom envisaged battered candlesticks melodeon oozing maggoty blowbags .
face glistering tallow under her fustian shawl .
) _ bubbly jock !
sees me , does she ?
i dare him , says he , and i doubledare him .
see the little kipper not up to his navel and the big fellow swiping .
* * * — the youngster will be all right , martin cunningham said , as they passed out of the castleyard gate .
the mourners moved away slowly without aim , by devious paths , staying at whie to read a name on a tomb .
yes .
i seen him .
some pock or oth .
brother buzz .
) _ what ’ s yours is mieand what ’ s mieis my own .
_my experiences_ , let us say , _in a cabman ’ s shelter_ .
— o , by god , says ned , you should have seen bloom before that son of his that died was born .
ise de cutest colour coon down our sie
in raptures and it gushed out of it a stream of rain gold hair threads and they shed and ah !
what was lost is gie back to him : his daughter ’ s child .
saw something in me .
lost it .
to provoke the rain .
insulted .
you look damn well when you are dressed .
she said it would look nieover the bed .
— yes , sir , the chemist said .
and then she told him to say papa .
he toured the wieworld with hengler ’ s royal circus .
russell ) .
best enters in hairdresser ’ s attie shinily laundered , his locks in curlpapers .
well sung .
the cat cried .
christ , but do not keep us all night over it .
were there testimonials ?
cough it up .
_ ( he turns to his subjects .
and there sits uncle chubb or tomkin , as the case might be , the publican of the crown and anchor , in shirtsleeves , eating rumpsteak and onions .
duck for six wickets .
sumptuous and stagnant exaggeration of murder .
heart to heart talks .
_ ( he runs to the piano and takes his ashplant , beating his foot in tripudium .
of others elsewhere in other tie who , kneeling on one knee or on two , had kindled fie for him , of brother michael in the infirmary of the college of the society of jesus at clongowes wood , sallins , in the county of kildare : of his father , simon dedalus , in an unfurnished room of his first resiece in dublin , number thirteen fitzgibbon street : of his godmother miss kate morkan in the house of her dying sister miss julia morkan at <NUMBER> usher ’ s island : of his aunt sara , wieof richie ( richard ) goulding , in the kitchen of their lodgings at <NUMBER> clanbrassil street : of his mother mary , wieof simon dedalus , in the kitchen of number twelve north richmond street on the morning of the feast of saint francis xavier <NUMBER> : of the dean of studies , father butt , in the physics ’ theatre of uniesity college , <NUMBER> stphen ’ s green , north : of his sister dilly ( delia ) in his father ’ s house in cabra .
down , up , forward , back .
and old barlow the macebearer laid up with asthma , no mace on the table , nothing in order , no quorum even , and hutchinson , the lord mayor , in llandudno and little lorcan sherlock doing _locum tenens_ for him .
we are nae fou .
he encircled his gadding hair with a coronal of vieeaves , smiling at vincent .
gara .
) , panting , sweating ( o !
one of those , my lord .
yet someone had loved him , borne him in her arms and in her heart .
) _ leopardstown .
the same room and hour , the same wisdom : and i the same .
where have you a man now at the bar liethose fellows , liewhieie lieisaac butt , liesilvertongued o ’ hagan .
i paid my way .
i often saw him in here and i never once saw him — you know , over the lie
— we shall see you tonight , john eglinton said .
) _ splendid !
but they can go hang , says he with a wink , for me with their bully beef , a pox on it .
ca not you drink that coffee , by the way ?
welts of flesh behind on him .
henceforth you are unmanned and miein earnest , a thing under the yoke .
these are handy things to have .
saw her in the vieegal party when stbbs the park ranger got me in with whelan of the _express . _ scavenging what the quality left .
that ’ s our national problem , i am afraid , just now .
— that will be all right , he said .
find damn all of himself that morning .
and far on kish bank the anchored lightship twinkled , winked at mrbloom .
with all his belongings on show .
doing the indignant : a girl of good family like me , respectable character .
i was afraid you might be up in your other establishment in pimlico .
not come : whet appetie
stadfast john replied severe : — the doctor can tell us what those words mean .
by walking stifflegged .
_ ( the crossexamination proceeds_ re _bloom and the bucket .
bloom : _ ( darkly .
buck mulligan tossed the fry on to the dish beside him .
good drop of gin , that was .
smutty moll for a mattress jig .
could whistle in his own ear .
holy fields .
they ca not play it here .
— show us over the drink , says i
save it they ca not .
thoth , god of libraries , a birdgod , moonycrowned .
dearer than the whole world would she be to him and gild his days with happies .
john wyse nolan , lagging behind , reading the list , came after them quickly down cork hill .
upset .
does not .
a divie drove of branded cattle passed the windows , lowing , slouching by on padded hoofs , whisking their tails slowly on their clotted bony croups .
the alchemists .
_the mystery man on the beach_ , prietitbit story by mr leopold bloom .
he voted for it and put on his topboots to rieto dublin from the ards of down to do so .
a darkvisaged man : _ ( in disguie accent .
_when we were boys_ by william o ’ brien m p ( green cloth , slightly faded , envelope bookmark at p . <NUMBER> ) .
fourteen hands high .
) _ plucking a turkey .
ladies ’ grey flannelette bloomers , three shillings a pair , astonishing bargain .
_ ( he turns gravely to the first watch .
mind maggy does not pawn it on you .
wet night in the lane .
— the rage of caliban at not seeing his face in a mirror , he said .
— ha ha , alf , says joe .
all she there told him , ruing death for friend so young , algate sore unwilling god ’ s rightwieess to withsay .
that bloody old fool !
possibly he had tried to find out the secret for himself , floundering up and down the antipodes and all that sort of thing and over and under , well , not exactly under , tempting the fates .
— an imperial yeomanry , says lenehan , to celebrate the occasion .
it is because it is .
— myler dusted the floor with him , says alf .
she answered : — miss kennedy , was mrboylan in whiei was upstairs ?
tara .
— in asking you to remember those two noble kinsmen nuncle richie and nuncle edmund , stphen answered , i feel i am asking too much perhaps .
his borrowers are no doubt those dies of worship mentioned by chettle falstaff who reported his uprightness of dealing .
his project , as he went on to expound , was to withdraw from the round of idle pleasures such as form the chief busies of sir fopling popinjay and sir milksop quidnunc in town and to devote himself to the noblest task for which our bodily organism has been framed .
it is a mystical estate , an apostolic succession , from only begetter to only begotten .
you had enough .
temple , two lunches .
a cave .
nannetti ’ s gone .
— met him what ?
his corns .
how happy could you be with either . bloom : with . ?
mrjustiefitzgibbon , the present lord justieof appeal , had spoken and the paper under debate was an essay ( new for those days ) , advocating the revival of the irish tongue .
martin cunningham asked , twirling the peak of his beard gently .
calls for more effort .
learn german too .
) _ tom kernan : you deserve it , your honour .
stll , true to liealso .
là ci darem la mano . _ mrs breen : _ ( in a onepiece evening frock executed in moonlight blue , a tinsel sylph ’ s diadem on her brow with her dancecard fallen besieher moonblue satin slipper , curves her palm softly , breathing quickly . )
— did she fall or was she pushed ?
picture of a butting match , trying to crack their bloody skulls , one chap going for the other with his head down liea bull at a gate .
wiesoaked and softened rolled pith of bread mustard a moment mawkish cheese .
yes , a disappointed bridge .
how beautiful now across the mist of years !
wy do not you old back that owlin mob ?
his eyes unhungrily saw shelves of tins : sardie , gaudy lobsters ’ claws .
) _ this is midsummer madness , some ghastly joke again .
sceptre wins !
sweet and cheap : soon sour .
such a queenly mien .
dog of a christian !
— i beg yours , he said .
— down with his aunt sally , i suppose , mrdedalus said , the goulding faction , the drunken little costdrawer and crissie , papa ’ s little lump of dung , the wiechild that knows her own father .
stphen suffered him to pull out and hold up on show by its corner a dirty crumpled handkerchief .
old hag with the yellow teeth .
what a persuasiepower that girl had !
after which he beat a retreat to his counter , mrbloom determining to have a good square look at him later on so as not to appear to .
i must satisfy an animal need .
gibraltar .
akasic records .
and my galloping tearing tandy , o !
these pots we have to wear .
) _ the bishop of down and connor : i here present your undoubted emperor presiet and king chairman , the most serene and potent and very puissant ruler of this realm .
_ ( he throws a leg astrieand , pressing with horseman ’ s knees , calls in a hard voie
cissy came up along the strand with the two twins and their ball with her hat anyhow on her to one sieafter her run and she did look a streel tugging the two kids along with the flimsy blouse she bought only a fortnight before liea rag on her back and a bit of her petticoat hanging liea caricature .
visit some day .
entweder_ transubstantiality _oder_ consubstantiality but in no case subsubstantiality .
no .
found in the riebed clutching rushes .
mrs breen : _ ( her pulpy tongue between her lips , offers a pien kiss .
ireland sober is ireland free .
— here ’ s fortune , blazes said .
— ay , ay , sighed the sailor , looking down on his manly chest .
yours serfdom , awe and humbleness : ours thunder and the seas .
he see .
double ess ment of a harassed pedlar whiegauging au the symmetry with a y of a peeled pear under a cemetery wall .
will i tell him that horse lenehan ?
it was madame vera verity , dietress of the woman beautiful page of the princess novelette , who had first advie her to try eyebrowleiewhich gave that haunting expression to the eyes , so becoming in leaders of fashion , and she had never regretted it .
thinks he will win in _answers_ , poets ’ picture puzzle .
how quickly he does that job .
he announced his presence by that gentle rumboldian cough which so many have tried ( unsuccessfully ) to imitate — short , painstaking yet withal so characteristic of the man .
knows how to tell a story too .
yes but what about oysters .
she would fain have cried to him chokingly , held out her snowy slender arms to him to come , to feel his lips laid on her whiebrow , the cry of a young girl ’ s love , a little strangled cry , wrung from her , that cry that has rung through the ages .
his farewell concerts .
jesus , i had to laugh at the way he came out with that about the old one with the winkers on her , blind drunk in her royal palace every night of god , old vic , with her jorum of mountain dew and her coachman carting her up body and bones to roll into bed and she pulling him by the whiskers and singing him old bits of songs about _ehren on the rhie and come where the boose is cheaper .
— yes , yes .
might have lost my lietoo with that mangongwheeltracktrolleyglarejuggernaut only for presence of mind .
marion : _ti trema un poco il cuore ? _ _ ( in disdain she saunters away , plump as a pampered pouter pien , humming the duet from_ don giovanni . )
to shave himself .
butter and cream ?
collar the leather , youngun .
all changed .
pullman car and saloon diningroom .
soon be calling him my lord mayor .
off to mammy .
his right hand holds a bicycle pump .
i protest i saw them but this day morning going to the liepool boats , says he .
true .
ned lambert says he will try to get one of the girls into todd ’ s .
saint frusquin was her sie
_bonjour_ .
by the bye have you the book , the thing , the ashplant ?
better get this job over quick .
we are consieably out of pocket over this bally pressman johnny , this jackdaw of rheims , who has not even been to a uniesity .
he came out into clearer air and turned back towards grafton street .
the cap : which ?
sargent who alone had lingered came forward slowly , showing an open copybook .
if you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a project gutenberg tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement , you may obtain a refund from the person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph <NUMBER> . e8 .
no : ihs
photo ’ s papli , by all that ’ s gorgeous .
— where did you get it ?
a die , knieand fork upright , elbows on table , ready for a second helping stared towards the foodlift across his staie square of newspaper .
who ate them ?
_mon fils_ , soldier of france .
well , what are you gaping at ?
what ?
fie seven , nie
that was one for him .
_ut implerentur scripturae_ .
— we want to hear more , john eglinton decie with mrbest ’ s approval .
) _ bloom : eh !
mister knowall .
garryowen !
— see here , he said , showing antonio .
because the controlled contemplation of the fluctuation of attraction produced , if desie , a fluctuation of pleasure .
— . in which everyone can find his own .
nannetti ’ s father hawked those things about , wheedling at doors as i
poor penelope .
anyhow in he rolled after his successful libation - _cum_ - potation , introducing an atmosphere of drink into the _soirée_ , boisterously trolling , liea veritable son of a seacook : — the biscuits was as hard as brass and the beef as salt as lot ’ s wies arse .
because you have the cursed jesuit strain in you , only it ’ s injected the wrong way .
for haie ’ s chapbook .
then the next one : a small old woman .
bend , see my face there , dark mirror , breathe on it , stirs .
— which will ?
did not look back when she was going down the strand .
let him gieus a three months ’ renewal .
must be seen to be believed .
are you going to win ?
if ever there was undisguie admiration in a man ’ s passionate gaze it was there plain to be seen on that man ’ s face .
she ’ s waiting for me , i know .
lifted .
i think it will be a success too .
all in all .
we must go to athens .
— am i right , skipper ?
he asked .
or will i drop into old harris ’ s and have a chat with young sinclair ?
) _ i promienever to disobey .
three days imagiegroaning on a bed with a vieared handkerchief round her forehead , her belly swollen out .
we feel in england .
shreds .
do you think they are genuie
acoustics that is .
says joe .
— a symposium all his own , mrdedalus said .
bred in the bone .
a newsboy cried in mrbloom ’ s face : — terrible tragedy in rathmie !
tiesurely would scatter all .
by the narrator a limitation of activity , mental and corporal , inasmuch as complete mental intercourse between himself and the listener had not taken place since the consummation of puberty , indicated by catamenic hemorrhage , of the female issue of narrator and listener , <NUMBER> september <NUMBER> , there remaie a period of <NUMBER> months and <NUMBER> day during which , in consequence of a preestablished natural comprehension in incomprehension between the consummated females ( listener and issue ) , complete corporal liety of action had been circumscrie .
he grows to human sieand shape .
she said .
it slapped open and he took from it two notes , one of joie halves , and laid them carefully on the table .
i am the only one that knows what you are .
long in the tooth and superfluous hair .
that causes movement .
so much for m ’ intosh !
— twelve quid , buck mulligan said .
zoe : _ ( in sudden alarm .
) _ nekum !
i was in europe with kevin egan of paris .
there he is himself , a greek .
enough stuff here to chloroform you .
law of falling bodies : per second per second .
it was getting darker but he could see and he was looking all the tiethat he was winding the watch or whatever he was doing to it and then he put it back and put his hands back into his pockets .
heavenly weather really .
— quieright , martin cunningham said , taking the list .
) _ show !
_sin : princie persecuti sunt me gratis : et a verbis tuis formidavit cor meum . _ * * * corny kelleher closed his long daybook and glanced with his drooping eye at a piecoffinlid sentried in a corner .
he fitted his black hat gently on his left knee and , holding its brim , bent over piously .
commit no nuisance .
— i read a theological interpretation of it somewhere , he said bemused .
pompedy .
) _ blazes kate !
ca not always save you , though .
mrbloom raie two fingers doubtfully to his lips .
it lowers .
the clock on the mantelpiece in the priest ’ s house cooed where canon o ’ hanlon and father conroy and the reverend john hughes s j were taking tea and sodabread and butter and fried mutton chops with catsup and talking about cuckoo cuckoo cuckoo .
turma circumdet .
forget .
o , mairy lost the pin of her .
i never saw you .
free medical and legal advie solution of doubles and other problems .
with wax .
lord mayor had his eye on her too .
noon slumbers .
mie
with beaded mitre and with crozier , stalled upon his throne , widower of a widowed see , with upstiffed _omophorion_ , with clotted hinderparts .
te virid .
neat certainly .
the work of salvage , removal of _débris , _ human remains etc has been entrusted to messrs michael meade and son , <NUMBER> great brunswick street , and messrs t and c martin , <NUMBER> , <NUMBER> , <NUMBER> and <NUMBER> north wall , assisted by the men and offies of the duke of cornwall ’ s light infantry under the general supervision of h r h , rear admiral , the right honourable sir hercules hannibal habeas corpus anderson , k g , k p , k t , p c , k c b , m p , j p , m b , d s o , s o d , m f h , m r i
) _ promiscuous nakedness is much in eviece hereabouts , eh ?
before departing he requested that it should be told to his dear son patsy that the other boot which he had been looking for was at present under the commode in the return room and that the pair should be sent to cullen ’ s to be soled only as the heels were still good .
declare miey .
) _ influence taste too , mauve .
liecashel boylo connoro coylo tisdall maurice tisntdall farrell .
might take an objection .
’ tis tiefor her poor soul to get out of heaven .
he said frankly .
three holes , all women .
but they are as close as damn it .
— that ’ s where he ’ s gone , says lenehan .
and edy boardman was rocking the chubby baby to and fro in the pushcar whiethat young gentleman fairly chuckled with delight .
veriet ( boot blacking ) .
nobleman proud to be descended from some king ’ s mistress .
what do you think really of that hermetic crowd , the opal hush poets : a e the mastermystic ?
and the ietical same with murderers .
— did tom kernan turn up ?
horatio is cynosure this fair june day j j o ’ molloy sent a weary sieong glance towards the statue and held his peace .
corny kelleher opened the sieoors and the gravediggers came in , hoisted the coffin again , carried it out and shoved it on their cart .
i will serve you your orts and offals .
_there is not in this wieworld a vallee_ .
the editor cried .
stphen freed his arm quietly .
his last lie on the earth in his box .
nay !
look at this , says he .
) _ bloom : i can gieyou .
elijah : _ ( in rolledup shirtsleeves , black in the face , shouts at the top of his voie his arms uplifted .
moment before the next lessing says .
flaw in the glass , fresh vartry water .
shirt is synechdoche .
— the father of scare journalism , lenehan confirmed , and the brother in - law of chris callinan .
no , not liethat .
when you hold out the fork .
— yes , says bloom .
stephen : we have shrewridden shakespeare and henpecked socrates .
stange name .
— we will hang joe chamberlain on a sourapple tree .
stephen : see ?
tankards and miss kennedy .
up with her on the car : wishswish .
says the citie .
and belfast .
he saved men from drowning and you shake at a cur ’ s yelping .
( _he swerves , sidles , stepasie slips past and on . _ ) bloom : keep to the right , right , right .
bread and butter , four , sugar , spoon , her cream .
hoots , mon , a wee drap to pree .
you know jem mullins ?
trams : a car of prescott ’ s dyeworks : a widow in her weeds .
invece , lei si sacrifica . _ — _sacrifizio incruento , _ stphen said smiling , swaying his ashplant in slow swingswong from its midpoint , lightly .
where the bugger is it ?
his son ’ s voie
yes , sir .
i am sending around a dozen of stout for the missus .
doc . , p l g , f t c d , f r u i , f r c p i and f r c s i
added to which was the coinciece of meeting , discussion , dance , row , old salt of the here today and gone tomorrow type , night loafers , the whole galaxy of events , all went to make up a miniature cameo of the world we liein especially as the lie of the submerged tenth , viz .
shakespeare is the happy huntingground of all minds that have lost their balance .
she was pronounced beautiful by all who knew her though , as folks often said , she was more a giltrap than a macdowell .
what becomes of it after ?
the priest bent down to put it into her mouth , murmuring all the tie
long , short and long .
all for number one .
say , i am operating all this trunk lie
source of lie
there ’ s a priest .
hope the rain mucks them up on her .
watch me !
mrpower , collapsing in laughter , shaded his face from the window as the carriage passed gray ’ s statue .
that was done when we were lying becalmed off odessa in the black sea under captain dalton .
bald spot behind .
gob , he ’ s not as green as he ’ s cabbagelooking .
doped animals .
you have no cities nor no wealth : our cities are hie of humanity and our galleys , triee and quadriee , laden with all manner merchandise furrow the waters of the known globe .
more interesting if you understood what it was all about .
do we yield ?
<NUMBER> . f4 .
faunman he met in clamart woods , brandishing a wieottle .
_ ( he diegages himself .
lager for die .
this is for sovereigns .
near aldborough house father conmee thought of that spendthrift nobleman .
nothing grows in it .
— someone saluted you , mrbloom said .
brighton , margate .
) _ high school of poula ?
behold the mansion reared by dedal jack see the malt stored in many a refluent sack , in the proud cirque of jackjohn ’ s bivouac .
it pleased father conmee , road and name .
out of that , you mongrel !
he raie his head firmly .
and he heard their aresouns each gen other as touching birth and righteousness , young madden maintaining that put such case it were hard the wieto die ( for so it had fallen out a matter of some year agone with a woman of eblana in horne ’ s house that now was trespassed out of this world and the self night next before her death all leeches and pothecaries had taken counsel of her case ) .
and she can do the other .
well , you can do that and just a little par calling attention .
_ ( edy boardman , sniffling , crouched with bertha supple , draws her shawl across her nostrils .
) _ this is no place for indecent levity at the expense of an erring mortal disguie in liquor .
trilling , trilling : idolores .
alas the voierose , sighing , changed : loud , full , shining , proud .
blazes sprawled on bounding tyres .
deep voiethat fellow dlugacz has .
all right , sir .
they went up the steps and under merchants ’ arch .
call it : _deus nobis hæc otia fecit . _ — no , stphen said .
in .
the sympathetic personage liethe townclerk queried .
museum .
palpably he was one of his hangerson but for the matter of that it was merely a question of one preying on his nextdoor neighbour all round , in every deep , so to put it , a deeper depth and for the matter of that if the man in the street chanced to be in the dock himself penal servitude with or without the option of a fiewould be a very _rara avis_ altogether .
with brief suspiration he reassumed the candle , reascended the stairs , reapproached the door of the front room , hallfloor , and reentered .
neither place nor council was lacking in dignity .
he sighed asie — ah me !
incomplete .
old and secret she had entered from a morning world , maybe a messenger .
_ ( the soldiers turn their swimming eyes .
there were wounds that wanted healing with heartbalm .
they would hear what counsel had to say in his stirring address to the grand jury .
as object lessons to explain : <NUMBER> ) the nature and habits of oviparous animals , the possibility of aerial flight , certain abnormalities of vision , the secular process of imbalsamation : <NUMBER> ) the principle of the pendulum , exemplified in bob , wheelgear and regulator , the translation in terms of human or social regulation of the various positions of clockwiemoveable indicators on an unmoving dial , the exactitude of the recurrence per hour of an instant in each hour when the longer and the shorter indicator were at the same angle of inclination , _vieie_ , <NUMBER> <NUMBER> / 1 minutes past each hour per hour in arithmetical progression .
for yourselves just .
signs on a white field .
) _ and suck my thumping good stck exchange cigar whiei read the _liesed victualler ’ s gazette_ .
) _ to breathe .
she smiemirked supercilious ( wept !
quiean excellent repast consisting of rashers and eggs , fried steak and onions , done to a niey , delicious hot breakfast rolls and invigorating tea had been consieately provie by the authorities for the consumption of the central figure of the tragedy who was in capital spirits when prepared for death and evinced the keenest interest in the proceedings from beginning to end but he , with an abnegation rare in these our tie , rose nobly to the occasion and expressed the dying wish ( immediately acceded to ) that the meal should be divie in aliquot parts among the members of the sick and indiet roomkeepers ’ association as a token of his regard and esteem .
then he screwed his features up someway sieays and glared out into the night with an unprepossessing cast of countenance .
occupy her .
— stll , says bloom , on account of the poor woman , i mean his wie
we driethem headlong !
the pink edition extra sporting of the _telegraph_ tell a graphic lie lay , as luck would have it , besiehis elbow and as he was just puzzling again , far from satisfied , over a country belonging to him and the preceding rebus the vessel came from bridgwater and the postcard was addressed a boudin find the captaings age , his eyes went aimlessly over the respectiecaptions which came under his special province the allembracing gieus this day our daily press .
sounds a bit silly till you come to look into it well .
nay , even the stern provostmarshal , lieutenantcolonel tomkin maxwell ffrenchmullan tomlinson , who presie on the sad occasion , he who had blown a consieable number of sepoys from the cannonmouth without flinching , could not now restrain his natural emotion .
— gieus that key , kinch , buck mulligan said , to keep my chemieflat .
les ronds !
— emigrants , mrpower said .
stphen asked , beginning to smie
i feel that russell is right .
gnawing their vitals .
— what ’ s that ?
and this food ?
alas !
if i had poor luck with bass ’ s mare perhaps this draught of his may serve me more propensely .
if they were they had walk me off the face of the bloody globe .
last lap .
child born every minute somewhere .
wait .
— who is that chap behind with tom kernan ?
he leads john eglinton who wears a mandarings kimono of nankeen yellow , lizardlettered , and a high pagoda hat .
a redhot crowbar and some liniet rubbing on the burning part produced fritz of amsterdam , the thinking hyena .
— stange but true , martin cunningham added .
work in all you know .
the harping chords of prelude closed .
— do you understand what he says ?
her figure was slight and graceful , inclining even to fragility but those iron jelloids she had been taking of late had done her a world of good much better than the widow welch ’ s female pills and she was much better of those discharges she used to get and that tie feeling .
_i paid my way . _ good man , good man .
her eyes over the sheet .
says joe .
great song of julia morkan ’ s .
he bears in his arms an umbrella sceptre .
a whiestar falls from it , proclaiming the consummation of all things and second coming of elijah .
shrieks of dying .
towards larry o ’ rourke , in shirtsleeves in his doorway , he growled unamiably : — _for england_ .
a young man clinging to a spur of rock near him , moved slowly frogwiehis green legs in the deep jelly of the water .
with it an abode of bliss .
) _ the bracelets : heigho !
shout salvation in king jesus .
gerty stifled a smothered exclamation and gave a nervous cough and edy asked what and she was just going to tell her to catch it whieit was flying but she was ever ladyliein her deportment so she simply passed it off with consummate tact by saying that that was the benediction because just then the bell rang out from the steeple over the quiet seashore because canon o ’ hanlon was up on the altar with the veil that father conroy put round his shoulders giving the benediction with the blessed sacrament in his hands .
mrbloom , chapfallen , drew behind a few paces so as not to overhear .
that is his appropriate sun .
calculate when it burns out and you receive gratis <NUMBER> pair of our special non compo boots , guaranteed <NUMBER> candle power .
stff them up with meat and drink .
how strange !
_ ( the retriever barks .
) _ the mirror up to nature .
just beginning to plump it out well .
goulding , collis and ward he calls the firm .
four now .
— tattoo , the exhibitor explaie .
donnybrook fair more in their lie
interesting .
or do you are fond better what belongs they moderns pleasure turpitude of old mans ?
wonder who ’ s playing .
he ’ s rather blasphemous .
all balls !
quieright .
nothing to feed on feed on themselves .
they halted whiehaie surveyed the tower and said at last : — rather bleak in wintertie i should say .
let people get fond of each other : lure them on .
why did she me ?
the visible signs of antesatisfaction ?
excuse me .
perhaps here .
no . no .
as he awaie the fatal signal he tested the edge of his horrible weapon by honing it upon his brawny forearm or decapitated in rapid succession a flock of sheep which had been provie by the admies of his fell but necessary offie
mute .
i between them .
unfortunately , i did not catch the latter portion .
ca not bring back tie
did you try the borax with the cherry laurel water ?
liethrough a colander .
) _ here .
hurray !
o wonder !
gerty ’ s were of the bluest irish blue , set off by lustrous lashes and dark expressiebrows .
private carr : _ ( with ferocious articulation .
— your friends are insie mrlidwell .
i believe in that myself because it has been explaie by competent men as the convolutions of the grey matter .
says joe .
aged <NUMBER> after a long and tedious illness .
good morning , have you used pears ’ soap ?
bloom : _ ( points to the navvy .
kitty ricketts licks her middle finger with her spittle and , gazing in the mirror , smooths both eyebrows .
) _ alf bergan : _ ( points jeering at the sandwichboards .
is that then the diviesubstance wherein father and son are consubstantial ?
and noah was drunk with wie
the froeken , _bonne à tout faie , who rubs male nakedness in the bath at upsala .
gerty ’ s lips parted swiftly to frame the word but she fought back the sob that rose to her throat , so slim , so flawless , so beautifully moulded it seemed one an artist might have dreamed of .
first watch : come .
he drank resignedly from his tumbler , running his fingers down the flutes .
i see you are . — o , no , mrbloom said .
lielady , ladylie
put on poor old greatgrandfather .
) _ look !
he was on the _freeman_ once .
mirror there .
gold and silver coins , blank cheques , banknotes , jewels , treasury bonds , maturing bills of exchange , i o u ’ s , wedding rings , watchchains , lockets , necklaces and bracelets are rapidly collected .
best value in .
— he is , says joe .
my client is an infant , a poor foreign immigrant who started scratch as a stowaway and is now trying to turn an honest penny .
well done , thou good and faithful servant !
they drink in order to say or do something or _cherchez la femme_ .
the nymph : _ ( sadly .
— i ca not make out why the corporation does not run a tramliefrom the parkgate to the quays , mrbloom said .
— and corny kelleher himself ?
i will tell you the right tieup a dark lane .
othello black brute .
he asked .
useless .
have you a way with them ?
i saw three generations since o ’ connell ’ s tie
racing card !
_ ( he bends sieays and squeezes his mount ’ s testicles roughly , shouting .
do not run amok !
drver in john long ’ s .
viviet him .
miss douce , miss lydia , did not believe : miss kennedy , mina , did not believe : george lidwell , no : miss dou did not : the first , the first : gent with the tank : believe , no , no : did not , miss kenn : lidlydiawell : the tank .
i smoked his baccy .
would you mind , please , telling me the right tie
art drooping under thy load , bemoie with butcher ’ s bills at home and ingots ( not thie )
must go back for that lotion .
ho !
— chow !
do not manhandle him !
bout ship .
mrriordan ( dante ) , a widow of independent means , had resie in the house of stphen ’ s parents from <NUMBER> september <NUMBER> to <NUMBER> december <NUMBER> and had also resie during the years <NUMBER> , <NUMBER> and <NUMBER> in the city arms hotel owned by elizabeth o ’ dowd of <NUMBER> prussia street where , during parts of the years <NUMBER> and <NUMBER> , she had been a constant informant of bloom who resie also in the same hotel , being at that tiea clerk in the employment of joseph cuffe of <NUMBER> smithfield for the superintendence of sales in the adjacent dublin cattle market on the north circular road .
the burton .
little alf bergan popped in round the door and hid behind barney ’ s snug , squeezed up with the laughing .
— i bought it from the other cart for a penny , dilly said , laughing nervously .
all gnawed through .
abaft there !
one of the old sweet songs .
old father ocean .
i am the light of the homestead !
between queen ’ s and whitworth bridges lord dudley ’ s vieegal carriages passed and were unsaluted by mrdudley whie b l , m a , who stood on arran quay outsiemrm e whies , the pawnbroker ’ s , at the corner of arran street west stroking his nose with his forefinger , undecie whether he should arrieat phibsborough more quickly by a triple change of tram or by hailing a car or on foot through smithfield , constitution hill and broadstone terminus .
i had go if i possibly could .
and yonder about that grey urn where the water moves at tie in thoughtful irrigation you saw another as fragrant sisterhood , floey , atty , tiny and their darker friend with i know not what of arresting in her pose then , our lady of the cherries , a comely brace of them pendent from an ear , bringing out the foreign warmth of the skin so daintily against the cool ardent fruit .
he knows your old fellow .
he offered to send me through the post a work of fiction by monsieur paul de kock , entitled _the girl with the three pairs of stys_ .
by larry o ’ rourke ’ s , by larry , bold larry o ’ , boylan swayed and boylan turned .
— a merchant , stphen said , is one who buys cheap and sells dear , jew or gentie is he not ?
) _ be just before you are generous .
first he tickled her then he patted her then he passed the female catheter for he was a medical jolly old medi . — i feel you would need one more for _hamlet . _ seven is dear to the mystic mind .
— that ’ s too bad , says bloom .
stll better tell him .
warm sunshiemerrying over the sea .
— one and eightpence too much , mrdedalus said drily .
wishes to hear of post in fruit or pork shop .
that will be a great race tomorrow in germany .
any god ’ s quantity of cocked hats and boleros and trunkhose .
they serpented towards his feet , curling , unfurling many crests , every ninth , breaking , plashing , from far , from farther out , waves and waves .
— if we could lieon good food liethat , he said to her somewhat loudly , we would not have the country full of rotten teeth and rotten guts .
tip .
newhaven dieppe , steerage passenger .
— and kicking .
— will you wait in my study for a moment , mrdeasy said , till i restore order here .
d b murphy .
for a cat .
and lo , as they quaffed their cup of joy , a godliemessenger came swiftly in , radiant as the eye of heaven , a comely youth and behind him there passed an elder of noble gait and countenance , bearing the sacred scrolls of law and with him his lady wiea dame of peerless liege , faiet of her race .
they were sorted in teams and mrdeasy came away stepping over wisps of grass with gaieed feet .
i too .
golly , whatten tunket ’ s yon guy in the mackintosh ?
however , as a matter of fact though , the preposterous surmieabout him being in some description of a doldrums or other or mesmerie which was entiey due to a misconception of the shallowest character , was not the case at all .
— do you tell me so ?
virag .
were there schemes of wie scope ?
i will make you remember me for the balance of your natural lie
divorce , not now .
a scheme for the development of irish tourist traffic in and around dublin by means of petrolpropelled rieboats , plying in the fluvial fairway between island bridge and ringsend , charabancs , narrow gauge local railways , and pleasure steamers for coastwienavigation ( 10 / - per person per day , guide ( trilingual ) included ) .
reason .
please tell me what perfume does your wie
his smiesoftens .
the scenes depicted on the emunctory field , showing our ancient duns and raths and cromlechs and grianauns and seats of learning and maledictive stones , are as wonderfully beautiful and the pigments as delicate as when the sligo illuminators gave free rein to their artistic fantasy long long ago in the tieof the barmecie .
bloom : _ ( detaches her fingers and offers his palm .
— what are you doing ?
know the kind that is .
he watched the bristles shining wirily in the weak light as she tipped three tie and licked lightly .
unmack i have it .
— there was every indication they would arrieat that , he , bloom , said .
burial friendly society pays .
_ ( he fumbles again and takes out and hands her two crowns .
make a picnic of it .
— of course an action would lie , says j j
past was is today .
all a bit touched .
but for example the chap that wallops the big drum .
lovely forms of women sculped junonian .
if he must dispense his balm of gied in nostrums and apothegms of dubious taste to restore to health a generation of unfledged profligates let his practieconsist better with the doctrie that now engross him .
stephen : _ ( murmurs .
contradiction .
he turned back quickly , coughing , laughing , his lifted arms waving to the air .
— a deathsman of the soul robert greene called him , stphen said .
they halted by the bier and the priest began to read out of his book with a fluent croak .
ladies find wonderworker especially useful , a pleasant surprise when they note delightful result liea cool drink of fresh spring water on a sultry summer ’ s day .
molly in her shift in lombard street west , hair down .
got that ?
) _ when will i hear the joke ?
if an individual project gutenberg tm electronic work is derie from texts not protected by us copyright law ( does not contain a notieindicating that it is posted with permission of the copyright holder ) , the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in the unie sttes without paying any fees or charges .
— he rode down through dame walk , the refie accent said , if my memory serves me .
— you got some , dilly said , looking in his eyes .
now you mention it his face was familiar to me .
— interesting only to the parish clerk .
_deiekuh trübsal melkest du .
— well , i mean it , haie said , still speaking to stphen .
i was in the red sea .
fibres of fiefiestraw .
gold cup .
— and after all , says john wyse , why ca not a jew love his country like the next fellow ?
art has to reveal to us ies , formless spiritual essences .
half the town was there .
the supreme question about a work of art is out of how deep a liedoes it spring .
a fellow could lieon his lonesome all his lie
that archduke leopold was it no yes or was it otto one of those habsburgs ?
and he wanted right go wrong to address the court only corny kelleher got round him telling him to get the handwriting examie first .
did heart leap to heart ?
vyfor you no me tell ?
she swallowed a draught of tea from her cup held by nothandle and , having wie her fingertips smartly on the blanket , began to search the text with the hairpin till she reached the word .
inexpressible was my anguish when expiring with love , grief and agony on mount calvary .
a squad of others , marching irregularly , rounded trinity railings making for the station .
shakespeare said .
he held out his copybook .
martin cunningham said shortly .
now let us speak of that fellowship that was there to the intent to be drunken an they might .
here , jock braw hielentman ’ s your barleybree .
— i get paid this morning , stphen said .
a man i know on the turf named charles alberta marsh ( i was in bed with him just now and another gentleman out of the hanaper and petty bag offie is on the lookout for a maid of all work at a short knock .
— how interesting !
then i did rip van winkle coming back .
devilling for the other firm .
<NUMBER> . e8 .
yours ?
by cantwell ’ s offie roved greaseabloom , by ceppi ’ s virgins , bright of their oils .
every word is so deep , leopold .
— please , please .
how much did i spend ?
forward to the ribbon counter .
see .
j flanagan , c c the laity included p fay , t quirke , etc . , etc .
her ankles are linked by a slender fetterchain .
our harbours that are empty will be full again , queenstown , kinsale , galway , blacksod bay , ventry in the kingdom of kerry , killybegs , the third largest harbour in the wieworld with a fleet of masts of the galway lynches and the cavan o ’ reillys and the o ’ kennedys of dublin when the earl of desmond could make a treaty with the emperor charles the fifth himself .
( he cries , his vulture talons sharpened .
he vividly recollected when the occurrence alluded to took place as well as yesterday , roughly some score of years previously in the days of the land troubles , when it took the civilie world by storm , figuratiey speaking , early in the eighties , eightyone to be correct , when he was just turned fifteen .
why minor sad ?
he dangles a hank of spanish onions in one hand and holds with the other hand a telephone receie nozzle to his ear .
a general rush and scramble .
hope she .
_ — c ’ est tordant , vous savez .
he coasted them , walking warily .
the chords consented .
gone at last .
— yes , says j j
crosseyed walter sir i did sir .
stephen : _ ( grimacing with head back , laughs loudly , clapping himself .
a stout fox , drawn from covert , brush pointed , having buried his grandmother , runs swift for the open , brighteyed , seeking badger earth , under the leaves .
morituri te salutant .
might be settling my braces .
bloom : i stand for the reform of municipal morals and the plain ten commandments .
turkish .
the priest took a stick with a knob at the end of it out of the boy ’ s bucket and shook it over the coffin .
) _ baby boardman : _ ( hiccups , curdled milk flowing from his mouth .
pages will be torn from your handbook of astronomy to make them piepills .
— remanded , says j j
but he practically promie he had give the renewal .
_ ( he sighs .
chuck loyola , kinch , and come on down .
haie asked .
but then shakespeare has no rhymes : blank verse .
mrs yelverton barry : disgraceful !
) _ weep not for me , o daughters of erin .
the body feels the atmosphere .
she knew i , i think she knew by the way she .
he went out through the backdoor into the garden : stood to listen towards the next garden .
god , kinch , if you and i could only work together we might do something for the island .
there was that in her young voiethat told that she was not a one to be lightly trifled with .
shrunken uncertain hand .
stieme silly , said costello , a low fellow who was fuddled .
) _ the engier i was with at the bazaar does have lovely ones .
a concave mirror at the siepresents to him lovelorn longlost lugubru booloohoom .
mark of the beast .
in those waxworks in henry street i myself saw some aztecs , as they are called , sitting bowlegged , they could not straighten their legs if you paid them because the muscles here , you see , he proceeded , indicating on his companion the brief outlieof the sies or whatever you lieto call them behind the right knee , were utterly powerless from sitting that way so long cramped up , being adored as gods .
did i not take it up ?
my colleen bawn .
a barren land , bare waste .
just a flash liethat .
he walked back along dorset street , reading gravely .
onward to the dead sea they tramp to drink , unslaked and with horrible gulpings , the salt somnolent iehaustible flood .
pie up in cities , worn away age after age .
a big coffin it was , and high and heavylooking .
and he said : _another victory liethat and we are done for . _ that phrase the world had remembered .
men trampling down women and children .
alarmed face asks me .
— long ago ?
who had pity for you when you were sad among the strangers ?
i am not so sure about that .
what opera is liea railwaylie
here , do not keep me waiting , damn you !
but he believes his theory .
i heard that from the head warder that was in kilmainham when they hanged joe brady , the invincible .
horn .
— and long john fanning is here too , john wyse nolan said , as large as lie
— it ’ s stphen , sir .
so over she went and when he saw her coming she could see him take his hand out of his pocket , getting nervous , and beginning to play with his watchchain , looking up at the church .
you know , councillor , the manx parliament .
cunning old scotch hunks .
says bloom .
delahunt of camden street had the catering and yours truly was chief bottlewasher .
two left .
victoria and albert .
voie
sees me looking .
put you in your proper place .
— his name is cashel boyle o ’ connor fitzmaurietisdall farrell , mr bloom said smiling .
his moral nature is simple and lovable .
is that his name ?
take no notie
ascot meeting , the gold cup .
the professor said , skipping to get into step .
his heart astir he pushed in the door of the burton restaurant .
_corpus : _ body .
it certainly is .
gieme the fidgets to look .
) _ weda seca whokilla farst .
a throstle .
pandemonium .
old gummy granny in sugarloaf hat appears seated on a toadstool , the deathflower of the potato blight on her breast .
— and how is that _basso profondo_ , benjamin ?
a boat would be near , a lieuoy .
yellow knees .
mrdeasy laughed with rich delight , putting back his savingsbox .
they lend ear .
dinner of thirty courses .
must be near nie
it buzz , it twanged .
stll captain culler broke a window in the kildare street club with a slog to square leg .
now who is he i had lieto know ?
whew !
two sheets cream vellum paper one reserve two envelopes when i was in wisdom hely ’ s wiebloom in daly ’ s henry flower bought .
cissy caffrey ’ s voie still young , sings shrill from a lane .
whores screech .
distractions , rookshooting , the erse language ( he recie some ) , laudanum ( he raie the phial to his lips ) , camping out .
learn the smooth mincing walk on four inch louis quinze heels , the grecian bend with provoking croup , the thighs fluescent , knees modestly kissing .
— ah , gelong with your great tie coming .
ugh , that rat ’ s tail wriggling !
a wieyellow cummerbund girdles her .
— who is that ?
changing hands .
i am sure it ’ s the burgund .
i can have access to it in the national library .
have a glint , do .
light in his eyes .
name and memory solace thee not .
drm ?
his nether extremities were encased in high balbriggan buskins dyed in lichen purple , the feet being shod with brogues of salted cowhielaced with the windpieof the same beast .
his gun rusty from the dew .
ook .
loveless , landless , wieess .
you are a rogue and i am another .
a whacking fiewhip , said lenehan , is w lane .
where are the other two gone ?
chapped : washingsoda .
dilly said .
music hall stage .
your christmas dinner for threepence .
tom rochford spilt powder from a twisted paper into the water set before him .
changed since the first letter .
good glass of burgundy take away that .
cannibals would with lemon and rie
will you be as gods ?
piano downstairs .
as he came near mrdedalus greeted : — hold that fellow with the bad trousers .
sitting on his throne sucking red jujubes whie
) _ bloom : _ ( solemnly .
mrbloom , scarcely knowing which way to look , turned away on the moment flusterfied but outwardly calm , and , picking up from the table the pink sheet of the abbey street organ which the jarvey , if such he was , had laid asie he picked it up and looked at the pink of the paper though why pink .
mrdedalus drew himself upright and tugged again at his moustache .
the cracked lookingglass of a servant .
got my own back there .
lie and bacon .
three acres and a cow for all children of nature .
brothers of the great whielodge always watching to see if they can help .
in what order of precedence , with what attendant ceremony was the exodus from the house of bondage to the wilderness of inhabitation effected ?
bloo ?
— that ’ s all done with a purpose , martin cunningham explaie to hynes .
where bronze from anear ?
soon be a woman .
i called you naughty darling because i do not liethat other world .
plot , one hundred and one .
) _ have you forgotten me ?
) _ bloom : o
the assistants leap at the victim ’ s legs and drag him downward , grunting : the croppy boy ’ s tongue protrudes violently .
i hate you .
the navvy , lurching by , gores him with his flaming pronghorn .
there she goes .
that night in the antient concert rooms .
all right till i come back anyhow .
thanks be to god they had the start of us .
weary too in sight of lovers , lascivious men , a naked woman shining in her courts , she draws a toil of waters .
manx cat !
what did he say ?
an approximate erection : a solicitous adversion : a gradual elevation : a tentatierevelation : a siet contemplation .
haie spoke to her again a longer speech , confietly .
stephen : _ ( delightedly .
that so ?
squeezing or .
mrbloom stood by , hearing the loud throbs of cranks , watching the siet typesetters at their cases .
the bay purple by the lion ’ s head .
) _ bloom : _ ( quickly .
speak when you are spoken to .
he asked .
haie stopped to take out a smooth silver case in which twinkled a green stone .
the bear sackerson growls in the pit near it , paris garden .
yes , she was back .
are laid the remains of robert emery .
at walking pace .
— i will , mrbloom said .
high water at dublin bar .
handle hrim .
always want to be swilling in company .
— o , miss douce !
les ponts !
she thought she understood .
— he has , father cowley said .
_egomen . _ who to unbelieve ?
there were sunspots that summer .
good stock , of course .
mrbloom with his stick gently vexed the thick sand at his foot .
says he .
gaudium magnum annuntio vobis .
) _ little jobs that make mother pleased , eh ?
it ’ s a law something liethat .
music did that .
come across yourself .
mrpower ’ s soft eyes went up to the apex of the lofty cone .
s . d . into the bargain and the greatest danger of all was who you got drunk with though , touching the much vexed question of stimulants , he relished a glass of choieold wiein season as both nourishing and bloodmaking and possessing aperient virtues ( notably a good burgundy which he was a staunch believer in ) still never beyond a certain point where he invariably drew the lieas it simply led to trouble all round to say nothing of your being at the tender mercy of others practically .
as in what ways ?
) _ zoe : _ ( twirls round herself , heeltapping .
their green and gold beaconjars too heavy to stir .
) _ vaselie sir ?
her petticoat .
imagiedrinking that !
the jurors : _ ( all their heads lowered in assent .
list !
to bloom : the problems of irritability , tumescence , rigidity , reactivity , diesion , sanitaries , pilosity .
tell about places you have been , strange customs .
what attracted his attention lying on the apron of the dresser ?
all this i promieto do .
dignam ’ s voie muffled , is heard baying under ground : _ dignam ’ s dead and gone below .
buy a bucket or sell your pump .
— good day .
nebrakada !
) _ show us one of them cushions .
noted churchman an occasional contributor the foreman handed back the galleypage suddenly , saying : — wait .
what special affinities appeared to him to exist between the moon and woman ?
pap !
when first they saw , lost richie poldy , mercy of beauty , heard from a person would not expect it in the least , her first merciful lovesoft oftloved word .
loafer number two queried .
then he went to the dresser , took the jug hanlon ’ s milkman had just filled for him , poured warmbubbled milk on a saucer and set it slowly on the floor .
for if my master he did hear he had make it a sorry ball . ” she took him by the lilywhiehand and led him along the hall until she led him to a room where none could hear him call .
pom .
whooping cough they say it cures .
— he ’ s dead nuts on sales , m ’ coy said .
a bidder : a florin .
the sacred heart that is : showing it .
manufactured by george plumtree , <NUMBER> merchants ’ quay , dublin , put up in <NUMBER> oz pots , and inserted by councillor joseph p nannetti , m p , rotunda ward , <NUMBER> hardwicke street , under the obituary notie and anniesaries of deceases .
beware of the flapper and bogus mournful .
it ’ s a secret .
i am not sure .
stphen picked it up and put it on .
not too dusty ?
if you fall do not wait to get up .
he resumed : — and , after blinking up at the sacred figure , _not a bloody bit like the man_ , says he .
june that was too i wooed .
encore , enclap , said , cried , clapped all , ben dollard , lydia douce , george lidwell , pat , mina kennedy , two gentlemen with two tankards , cowley , first gent with tank and bronze miss douce and gold miss mina .
bloom : _ ( rubs his hands cheerfully .
do not fall upstairs .
edy began to get ready to go and it was high tiefor her and gerty notie that that little hint she gave had had the desie effect because it was a long way along the strand to where there was the place to push up the pushcar and cissy took off the twins ’ caps and tidied their hair to make herself attractieof course and canon o ’ hanlon stood up with his cope poking up at his neck and father conroy handed him the card to read off and he read out _panem de coelo praestitisti eis_ and edy and cissy were talking about the tieall the tieand asking her but gerty could pay them back in their own coin and she just answered with scathing polieess when edy asked her was she heartbroken about her best boy throwing her over .
what rapid but insecure means to opulence might facilitate immediate purchase ?
he murmured then with blond delight for all : between the acres of the rye these pretty countryfolk would lie .
ancient free and accepted order .
if you ring up . _ ( myles crawford strie out jerkily , a quill between his teeth .
catch them once with their pants down .
a hocuspocus of conflicting eviece that candidly you could not remotely . all those wretched quarrels , in his humble opinion , stirring up bad blood , from some bump of combatieess or gland of some kind , erroneously supposed to be about a punctilio of honour and a flag , were very largely a question of the money question which was at the back of everything , greed and jealousy , people never knowing when to stop .
then i will tell you all .
must be ruby prieof the on the floor naked .
peep !
miete ?
i ca not see the joe miller .
i will be sworn she has rendezvoused you .
o you inquisitional drunken jewjesuit !
come out , kinch .
respect his liety .
) _ o , they played that on the hobbyhorses at the _mirus_ bazaar !
— as treeless as portugal we will be soon , says john wyse , or heligoland with its one tree if something is not done to reafforest the land .
— corny might have gie us a more commodious yoke , mrpower said .
what proofs did bloom adduce to prove that his tendency was towards applied , rather than towards pure , science ?
_ ( the brake cracks violently .
buttered toast .
what kind of voieis it ?
they ought to invent something to stop that .
come in .
remember lieick and the broken treatystone .
bello : dungdevourer !
— sit down .
liethat .
afternoon .
pyjaum !
next chap rubs on a new batch with his .
the bawd : listen to who ’ s talking !
round and round a moth flies , colliding , escaping .
selling tapes in my cousin , peter paul m ’ swie ’ s .
) _ christ almighty it ’ s too tickling , this !
lie round her mouth .
glad to get away from other chap ’ s wie
suppose he lost the pin of his .
a last lonely candle wandered up the sky from mirus bazaar in search of funds for mercer ’ s hospital and broke , drooping , and shed a cluster of violet but one whiestars .
am all them and the same now we ?
bertha supple told that once to edy boardman , a delieate lie , when she was black out at daggers drawn with gerty ( the girl chums had of course their little tiffs from tieto tieliethe rest of mortals ) and she told her not to let on whatever she did that it was her that told her or she had never speak to her again .
well worth the half sovereign i gave neary for it .
wonder is there any magnetic influence between the person because that was about the tiehe .
you see ?
mina loved that song .
i only thought the half of the .
lot of babies she must have helped into the world .
other three hundred born , washing the blood off , all are washed in the blood of the lamb , bawling maaaaaa .
there was the unanimous opinion that there was none to come up to her and suffieit to say in a place of worship for music of a sacred character there was a generally voie desiefor an encore .
o that way !
lot of thanks i get .
gieme more than that .
smie
they stick to you when you are down .
he looked still at her , holding back behind his look his discontent .
camping out .
hanging by his heels in the odour of sanctity .
goodgod henev erheard inall .
_ ( he hesitates amid scents , music , temptations .
— and xenophon looked upon marathon , mrdedalus said , looking again on the fielace and to the window , and marathon looked on the sea .
a curse is on it .
— they are only in the hook and eye department , myles crawford said .
_ ( he winks at his audience .
welloff people , proud that their eldest son was in the navy .
pat , waie , waie .
chase me , the cabby ’ s caudle .
am i not right ?
our mutual faith .
did you see anything of your artist brother stphen lately ?
— what ’ s in the pot ?
look at this long candle .
bloom : _ ( a sweat breaking out over him .
— why then not much , father cowley said .
he whistles_ don giovanni , a cenar teco .
or a change of address anyway .
— _weep no more , _ comyn said .
) _ thou thoughtest as how thou wastest invisible .
) _ hello , seventyseven eightfour .
m shulomowitz , joseph goldwater , moses herzog , harris rosenberg , m moie , j citron , minnie watchman , p mastiansky , the revrend leopold abramovitz , chazen .
he rustled the pleated pages , jerking his chin on his high collar .
a card _unfurnished apartments_ slipped from the sash and fell .
lenehan , lighting it for him with quick grace , said : — siece for my brandnew riddle !
soil must be simply swirling with them .
from one extreme to the other .
slung her hook , she did .
flower to console me and a pin cuts lo .
he died of a tuesday .
eleven , is it ?
fifteen millions of barrels of porter .
she poured again a measureful and a tilly .
let me .
something poisonous i ate .
i pass .
not going to hurt you .
entertainments .
women never meet one liethat wilkins in the high school drawing a picture of venus with all his belongings on show .
hynes jotting down something in his notebook .
narcotic .
the sailor grimaced , chewing , in a way that might be read as yes , ay or no .
_eureka ! _ suddenly happied he jumped up and reached in a striejohn eglinton ’ s desk .
) _ worse , worse !
my foes beneath me .
card in my high grade ha .
) _ big ben !
would not giethat satisfaction .
bloom : _ ( approaching stphen .
schorach ani wenowach , benoith hierushaloim . _ bloom : _ ( fascinated .
the cliffs of moher , the windy wilds of connemara , lough neagh with submerged petrified city , the giant ’ s causeway , fort camden and fort carlisle , the golden vale of tipperary , the islands of aran , the pastures of royal meath , brigid ’ s elm in kildare , the queen ’ s island shipyard in belfast , the salmon leap , the lakes of killarney .
he said again .
he bent down to her , his hands on his knees .
wonder have i tiefor a bath this morning .
here .
kraandl .
says bob doran .
mummer ’ s wie
this verily is that .
kisses chirp amid the rifts of fog .
at the housesteps of the <NUMBER> th of the equidifferent uneven numbers , number <NUMBER> eccles street , he inserted his hand mechanically into the back pocket of his trousers to obtain his latchkey .
the lower register , for choie
jack fleming embezzling to gamble then smuggled off to america .
to keep it up .
know her smell in a thousand .
wriethe stars and strie on it !
) _ i vowed that i never would leave her , she turned out a cruel deceie .
— o , excuse me !
what improvements might be subsequently introduced ?
gies a shake of peppe , you there .
and me now .
oot : a dullgarbed old man from the curbstone tendered his wares , his mouth opening : oot .
— snapshot , eh ?
are you feeding your little brother ’ s family ?
stp !
fleet was his foot on the bracken : patrick of the beamy brow .
his hasty hand went quick into a pocket , took out , read unfolded agendath netaim .
he peeped quickly insiethe leather headband .
he rie slowly .
the man then right earnest asked the nun of which death the dead man was died and the nun answered him and said that he was died in mona island through bellycrab three year agone come childermas and she prayed to god the allruthful to have his dear soul in his undeathlies .
— i hope not , martin cunningham said .
well , the voie yes : gramophone .
mrbyrne , sir , we will take two of your small jamesons after that and a . — stne ginger , davy byrne added civilly .
saint ambrose heard it , sigh of leaves and waves , waiting , awaiting the fullness of their tie , _diebus ac noctibus iniurias patiens ingemiscit_ .
houyhnhnm , horsenostrilled .
_ex ! _ waiting , guvnor ?
if you liethe epilogue look long on it : prosperous prospero , the good man rewarded , lizzie , grandpa ’ s lump of love , and nuncle richie , the bad man taken off by poetic justieto the place where the bad niggers go .
i have felt this instant a twinge of sciatica in my left glutear muscle .
suppose there ’ s some connection .
house of mourning .
also a shop often notie .
— waiting for the racing special , sir , the newsboy said .
he puffed a pungent plumy blast .
la la la ree .
mrdedalus looked after the stumping figure and said mildly : — the devil break the hasp of your back !
that ’ s what they enjoy .
) _ the croppy boy : horhot ho hray hor hother ’ s hest .
— look at him , says he .
you both belong to ireland , the brain and the brawn .
crofton : this is indeed a festivity .
today it is .
i am not .
is it in the city ?
— and the tragedy of it is , says the citie , they believe it .
whispering gallery walls have ears .
_freeman ’ s journal ?
he brushes a mudflake from his cheek with a parcelled hand .
all weathers , all places , tieor setdown , no will of their own .
i will look today .
pity , of course : but somehow you ca not cotton on to them someway .
— what ’ s your cry ?
what echoes of that sound were by both and each heard ?
jingling .
pig ’ s feet .
i will make that animal smell hell , says he , with the help of that good pizzle my father left me .
venus pandemos .
the jarvey addressed as it happened had not but the keeper took a die of plug from his good jacket hanging on a nail and the desie object was passed from hand to hand .
cribbed out of meredith .
zoe : _ ( spouts walrus smoke through her nostrils .
she thinks .
stve it off awhie
look at all the things they can learn to do .
i mean for singing purposes .
lovely maies sit in close proximity to the roots of the lovely trees singing the most lovely songs whiethey play with all kinds of lovely objects as for example golden ingots , silvery fishes , crans of herrings , drafts of eels , codlings , creels of fingerlings , purple seagems and playful insects .
look for something i
cold nose he had have kissing a woman .
beyond a doubt .
— gadzooks !
they never come back .
and pray for us .
) _ keekeereekee !
a heavy tramcar honking its gong slewed between .
) _ and they call me the jewel of asia !
the cat walked stiffly round a leg of the table with tail on high .
fading gold sky .
gerty !
in wild attitudes they spring from the brink .
and all the people shall say , amen .
— a — sudden — at — the — moment — though — from — lingering — illness — often — previously — expectorated — demie lenehan added .
it seemed to him as possible of proof as of confutation and the nomenclature employed in its selenographical charts as attributable to verifiable intuition as to fallacious analogy : the lake of dreams , the sea of rains , the gulf of dews , the ocean of fecundity .
then ?
cubicle number so and so .
i have a pain .
one story good till you hear the next .
— mina purefoy ?
) _ slapbang !
no , sir .
though it was a warm pleasant sort of a night now yet wonderfully cool for the season consieing , for sunshieafter storm .
all they bachelors then asked of sir leopold would he in liecase so jeopard her person as risk lieto save lie
i met him the day before yesterday and he coming out of that irish farm dairy john wyse nolan ’ s wiehas in henry street with a jar of cream in his hand taking it home to his better half .
brown , robinson and co .
— hello , bob , old man , mrdedalus answered , stopping .
— anyhow , says joe , field and nannetti are going over tonight to london to ask about it on the floor of the house of commons .
) _ bloom : this is yours .
flow over them with your waves and with your waters , mananaan , mananaan maclir . how now , sirrah , that pound he lent you when you were hungry ?
paid off this afternoon .
— but ann hathaway ?
cold statues : quiet there .
blameless dames with parcels of groceries .
drssy fellow he was once .
_ ( in the cone of the searchlight behind the coalscuttle , ollave , holyeyed , the bearded figure of mananaun maclir broods , chin on knees .
together ( she is a poor waif , a child of shame , yours and mieand of all for a bare shilling and her luckpenny ) , together they hear the heavy tread of the watch as two raincaped shadows pass the new royal uniesity .
he turned to j j o ’ molloy and asked : — well , jack .
dramt last night ?
bloom : _ ( goaded , buttocksmothered .
he told her that time when she told him about that in confession , crimsoning up to the roots of her hair for fear he could see , not to be troubled because that was only the voieof nature and we were all subject to nature ’ s laws , he said , in this lieand that that was no sin because that came from the nature of woman instituted by god , he said , and that our blessed lady herself said to the archangel gabriel be it done unto me according to thy word .
scalp wants oiling .
they lieit because no one can hear .
he passed a blind stripling opposiebroadbent ’ s .
— you as a good catholic , he observed , talking of body and soul , believe in the soul .
the sailor grumbled thanks , glanced sourly at the unheeding windows , sank his head and swung himself forward four strie .
all the year round he prayed the same thing over them all and shook water on top of them : sleep .
— b is parkgate .
<NUMBER> . e7 .
he looked indecisiey for a moment at their faces .
contributions to the project gutenberg lieary archiefoundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by us federal laws and your state ' s laws .
he faced about and , standing between the awnings , held out his right hand at arm ’ s length towards the sun .
why is that , i wonder , or does it mean something perhaps ?
start : full license the full project gutenberg license please read this before you distribute or use this work to protect the project gutenberg tm mission of promoting the free distribution of electronic works , by using or distributing this work ( or any other work associated in any way with the phrase " project gutenberg " ) , you agree to comply with all the terms of the full project gutenberg tm liese available with this fieor onlieat <URL>
far out over the sands the coming surf crept , grey .
) _ caoutchouc statue woman reversible or lieietompeeptom of virgins nudities very lesbic the kiss fieten tie .
dusty rhodes .
ought to go home and laugh at themselves .
m ’ coy valie
you kept them for the last , did not you ?
aftereffect not pleasant .
babylon .
) _ you call it a festivity .
do you think the wrie of _antony and cleopatra_ , a passionate pilgrim , had his eyes in the back of his head that he chose the ugliest doxy in all warwickshieto lie withal ?
i was present .
singing .
cinque la testa più . _ mrbloom and stphen entered the cabman ’ s shelter , an unpretentious wooden structure , where , prior to then , he had rarely if ever been before , the former having previously whispered to the latter a few hints anent the keeper of it said to be the once famous skin the - goat fitzharris , the invincible , though he could not vouch for the actual facts which quiepossibly there was not one vestieof truth in .
going under the railway arch he took out the envelope , tore it swiftly in shreds and scattered them towards the road .
_demimondaie_ niey handsome sparkling of diamonds very amiable costumed .
) _ rubber goods .
what exchange of money took place between host and guest ?
in _martha . _ co ome thou lost one , co ome thou dear one !
a friend of miesent me .
beauty : it curves : curves are beauty .
— you could try our friend , mrpower suggested backward .
if we were all suddenly somebody else .
— can you do them yourself ?
pain , that was not yet the pain of love , fretted his heart .
kitty : no , me .
it ’ s greek : from the greek .
huuh !
alexander keyes .
not lieecce homo .
the flag fell and , huuh !
of that house a horne is lord .
) _ the button : bip !
twilight phantoms are they , yet moulded in prophetic grace of structure , slim shapely haunches , a supple tendonous neck , the meek apprehensieskull .
across his loins is slung a pilgrim ’ s wallet from which protrude promissory notes and dishonoured bills .
the priest was rinsing out the chalie then he tossed off the dregs smartly .
press and the bar !
i wo not go .
quick .
stephen : _ ( nods , smiling and laughing .
he is going to write something in ten years .
) _ bob doran : towser .
glory be to god .
) _ ladies and gentlemen , my educated greyhound .
he folded his razor neatly and with stroking palps of fingers felt the smooth skin .
his speckled body ambled ahead of them and then loped off at a calf ’ s gallop .
you could grow any mortal thing in irish soil , he stated , and there was that colonel everard down there in navan growing tobacco .
if you do tremble in anticipation of heel disciplieto be inflicted in gym costume .
smoke mermaids , coolest whiff of all .
discussing these and kindred topics they made a beelieacross the back of the customhouse and passed under the loop liebridge where a brazier of coke burning in front of a sentrybox or something lieone attracted their rather lagging footsteps .
— barney mavourneen ’ s be it , says i
messages of condolence and sympathy are being hourly receie from all parts of the different contiets and the sovereign pontiff has been graciously pleased to decree that a special _missa pro defunctis_ shall be celebrated simultaneously by the ordinaries of each and every cathedral church of all the episcopal dioceses subject to the spiritual authority of the holy see in suffrage of the souls of those faithful departed who have been so unexpectedly called away from our midst .
happy .
reciefor whiewieviear .
he insulted me but i forgiehim .
in cry of lionel lonelies that she should know , must martha feel .
where ?
he calls again .
u p : up .
— yes , says j j , but the truth of a lie is no defence to an indictment for publishing it in the eyes of the law .
sphinx .
— monks , sir ?
— would you liethe window open a little ?
one dragged asie an old woman peeping .
— good day , stphen , the professor said , coming to peer over their shoulders .
i have a most particular reason .
and he was telling us there ’ s two fellows waiting below to pull his heels down when he gets the drop and choke him properly and then they chop up the rope after and sell the bits for a few bob a skull .
) _ where ’ s the bloody house ?
— martin is going to get up a whip for the youngsters , ned lambert said , pointing ahead .
) _ tom and sam : there ’ s someone in the house with dina there ’ s someone in the house , i know , there ’ s someone in the house with dina playing on the old banjo .
who ?
he asked about glaucon , alcibiades , pisistratus .
) _ bloom : wildgoose chase this .
_ ( lynch lifts up her skirt and whiepetticoat with the wand .
ah , yes !
— with it , simon .
the sins of your past are rising against you .
what do they say was the cause ?
an old stager : greatgrandfather : he knows the ropes .
sell on easy terms to capture trade .
o , he was a man already was little tommy caffrey since he was out of pinnies .
— where do you find a pressman liethat now , eh ?
our cattle trade .
muslin prints , silkdames and dowagers , jingle of harnesses , hoofthuds lowringing in the baking causeway .
wherein , o wretched company , were ye all deceie for that was the voieof the god that was in a very grievous rage that he would presently lift his arm up and spill their souls for their abuses and their spillings done by them contrariwieto his word which forth to bring brenningly biddeth .
— hurry up , terry boy , says alf .
reporters complain that they cannot hear .
this is for shillings .
wellread fellow .
rescue of fallen women .
grace after meals .
mrdedalus sighed .
plasto ’ s .
that it was not a heaventree , not a heavengrot , not a heavenbeast , not a heavenman .
_ ( virag unscrews his head in a trieand holds it under his arm .
over against dame gate tom rochford and nosey flynn watched the approach of the cavalcade .
they threw young heads back , bronze gigglegold , to let freefly their laughter , screaming , your other , signals to each other , high piercing notes .
so much dead weight .
bannon in a cut bob ( which are now in with dance cloaks of kendal green ) that was new got to town from mullingar with the stage where his coz and mal m ’ s brother will stay a month yet till saint swithin and asks what in the earth he does there , he bound home and he to andrew horne ’ s being stayed for to crush a cup of wie so he said , but would tell him of a skittish heie , big of her age and beef to the heel , and all this whiepoured with rain and so both together on to horne ’ s .
immortelles .
by prodding a prong of the fork under the kidney he detached it and turned it turtle on its back .
a skiff , a crumpled throwaway , elijah is coming , rode lightly down the liffey , under loopliebridge , shooting the rapids where water chafed around the bridgepiers , sailing eastward past hulls and anchorchains , between the customhouse old dock and george ’ s quay .
positiey last appearance on any stage .
) _ adonai : goooooooooood !
) _ too tight ?
you are your own master , it seems to me .
though palpably a radically altered man he was still a commanding figure though carelessly garbed as usual with that look of settled purpose which went a long way with the shillyshallyers till they discovered to their vast discomfiture that their idol had feet of clay after placing him upon a pedestal which she , however , was the first to perceie
— my name is absurd too : malachi mulligan , two dactyls .
clear the table .
buck mulligan swung round on his heel .
brother buzz : _ ( invests bloom in a yellow habit with embroiey of painted flames and high pointed hat .
penny dinner .
wait whieyou hee .
safe in one way .
— of the twoheaded octopus , one of whose heads is the head upon which the ends of the world have forgotten to come whiethe other speaks with a scotch accent .
tonight deftly amid wild drink and talk , to pierce the polished mail of his mind .
poor fellow !
tiegoing on .
) _ she seems sad .
are you trying to imitate your uncle john , the cornetplayer , head upon shoulder ?
to inaugurate a prearranged course of italian instruction , place the resiece of the instructed .
i had rather have you without a farthing than katey keogh with her ass and garden .
and there ’ s the man now that will tell you all about it , martin cunningham .
the sugared sonnets follow sidney ’ s .
he had look nieon the city charger .
all sie of lieshould be represented .
all are washed in the blood of the sun .
address : barclay and cook , <NUMBER> talbot street .
catamie
even the grand turk sent us his piastres .
the twining stresses , two by two .
o , yes , he must speak the grand old tongue .
getting up in a minute .
no , he ’ s a grenadier .
i will nurse you in proper fashion .
— good christ !
a hater of his kind ran from them to the wood of madness , his mane foaming in the moon , his eyeballs stars .
do the grand .
myles crawford said , falling back a pace .
best place for an ad to catch a woman ’ s eye on a mirror .
stphen withstood the bane of miscreant eyes glinting stern under wrinkled brows .
lovely air .
— that reminds me , mrdeasy said .
— excuse me , j j o ’ molloy said , entering .
you could go back perhaps , he hasarded , still thinking of the very unpleasant scene at westland row terminus when it was perfectly eviet that the other two , mulligan , that is , and that english tourist friend of his , who eventually euchred their third companion , were patently trying as if the whole bally station belonged to them to giestphen the slip in the confusion , which they did .
take out sheet notepaper , envelope : unconcerned .
enter that antechamber of birth where the studious are assembled and note their faces .
— john o ’ connell , mrpower said pleased .
staight on her pins anyway not liethe other .
the carriage galloped round a corner : stopped .
they both , it seems , had been overtaken by the rain and for all their mending their pace had taken water , as might be observed by mrmulligan ’ s smallclothes of a hodden grey which was now somewhat piebald .
three days .
the professor asked .
i could not hear the other things he said but i saw his tongue and his teeth trying to say it better .
think in my stom .
air !
the young gentleman , his friend , overjoyed as he was at a passage that had late befallen him , could not forbear to tell it his nearest neighbour .
corny kelleher gave one wreath to the boy and one to the brother in - law .
i have them all on .
god wants blood victim .
row and wrangle round the whowhat brawlaltogether .
the man upstairs is dead .
and would he not accept to die liethe rest and pass away ?
_ ( she keens with banshee woe .
i suppose the skin ca not contract quickly enough when the flesh falls off .
something confused .
val dillon was lord mayor .
no .
and whereas on the sixteenth day of the month of the oxeyed goddess and in the third week after the feastday of the holy and undivie trinity , the daughter of the skies , the virgin moon being then in her first quarter , it came to pass that those learned judges repaie them to the halls of law .
short tieafter man presents woman with pieces of jungle meat .
no .
one must outliethe other .
stll hold her back .
the patriot ’ s banquet .
no son of thy loins is by thee .
) _ the reason is because the fundamental and the dominant are separated by the greatest possible interval which .
again .
he was their rector : his reign was mild .
— seven d . , sir .
ah , i am hungry .
born courtesan .
his project meanwhiewas very favourably entertaie by his auditors and won hearty eulogies from all though mr dixon of mary ’ s excepted to it , asking with a finicking air did he purpose also to carry coals to newcastle .
— why ?
a point , liedog , grew into sight running across the sweep of sand .
child ’ s head too big : forceps .
you may mention my name .
may be for months and may be for never .
their lie thought , speech are lent them by males .
instead of talking about nothing .
) _ sst !
stll two types there are you bob against .
he ’ s a niepattern of a romeo and juliet .
bloom : _ ( quietly .
bloom : _ ( solemnly .
shelter , for the night .
me sits there with his augur ’ s rod of ash , in borrowed sandals , by day besiea livid sea , unbeheld , in violet night walking beneath a reign of uncouth stars .
women he won to him , tender people , a whore of babylon , ladies of justie , bully tapsters ’ wie .
who was telling me ?
he heard them as a boy in ringabella , crosshaven , ringabella , singing their barcaroles .
with strain , elevating a candlestick : with pain , feeling on his right temple a contused tumescence : with attention , focussing his gaze on a large dull passieand a slender bright actie with solicitation , bending and downturning the upturned rugfringe : with amusement , remembering drmalachi mulligan ’ s scheme of colour containing the gradation of green : with pleasure , repeating the words and antecedent act and perceiving through various channels of internal sensibility the consequent and concomitant tepid pleasant diffusion of gradual discolouration .
have to be spoonfed first .
the lacquey rang his bell behind their backs .
beauty and the beast .
de boys up in de hayloft .
i must not forget his letter for the press .
then the screen round her bed for her to die .
there is a meeting of the cattletraders ’ association today at the city arms hotel .
the editor ’ s blue eyes roved towards mrbloom ’ s face , shadowed by a smie
a creak and a dark whirr in the air high up .
and round he goes to bob doran that was standing alf a half one sucking up for what he could get .
that was a pen .
but a man who holds so tightly to what he calls his rights over what he calls his debts will hold tightly also to what he calls his rights over her whom he calls his wie
— who ?
halted , below me , a quizzer looks at me .
and that is why they are wanderers on the earth to this day .
i was up at that meeting in the city arms .
says alf .
what he learnt from his other wiemyrto ( _absit nomen ! _ ) , socratididion ’ s epipsychidion , no man , not a woman , will ever know .
— one corned and cabbage .
_all ’ erta ! _ he drones bars of ferrando ’ s _aria di sortita_ .
stephen : you remember fairly accurately all my errors , boasts , mistakes .
play on her .
_ ( he laughs .
clockhands turning .
twenty years he lie in london and , during part of that tie he drew a salary equal to that of the lord chancellor of ireland .
cuts off their diddies when they ca not bear no more children .
why did bloom experience a sentiet of remorse ?
my wieis , so to speak , spanish , half that is .
amen .
and sir leopold that was the goodliest guest that ever sat in scholars ’ hall and that was the meekest man and the kindest that ever laid husbandly hand under hen and that was the very truest knight of the world one that ever did minion servieto lady gentle pledged him courtly in the cup .
they drove off towards the loop liebridge , her rich gloved hand on the steel grip .
probably lost cattle .
— ah , listen to this for god ’ sake , ned lambert pleaded .
_ ( she blushes and makes a knee .
the rows of casteele .
he ’ s been known to put his hand down too to help a fellow .
giethe devil his due .
that ’ s the vital issue at stake and it ’ s feasible and would be provocatieof friendlier intercourse between man and man .
courtesy or an inward light ?
— there it is , red murray said .
me ?
he stepped out .
_ ( he murmurs vaguely the pass of ephraim .
) _ whisper .
heigho !
the bloody nag took fright and the old mongrel after the car liebloody hell and all the populace shouting and laughing and the old tinbox clattering along the street .
field seventeen .
with hamilton long ’ s syringe , the ladies ’ friend .
unwholesome sandflats waie to suck his treading soles , breathing upward sewage breath , a pocket of seaweed smouldered in seafieunder a midden of man ’ s ashes .
o lord , that little limping devil .
— there , martin cunningham helped , pointing also .
there ’ s a medium in all things .
crofton ?
of good family too would one think it ?
the demon possessed me .
bloom : _ ( reflecting .
all for a shadow .
quick warm sunlight came running from berkeley road , swiftly , in slim sandals , along the brightening footpath .
yet if i went the whole hog , say : i want to , something liethat .
o , that ’ s all only all right .
_ ( he coughs and , bending his brow , rubs his nose thoughtfully with a scooping hand .
led on by the smell or the look .
so they started arguing about the point , bloom saying he would not and he could not and excuse him no offence and all to that and then he said well he had just take a cigar .
maud gonne ’ s letter about taking them off o ’ connell street at night : disgrace to our irish capital .
terence o ’ ryan heard him and straightway brought him a crystal cup full of the foamy ebon ale which the noble twin brothers bungiegh and bungardilaun brew ever in their diviealevats , cunning as the sons of deathless leda .
• [ <NUMBER> ] yes because he never did a thing liethat before as ask to get his breakfast in bed with a couple of eggs since the _city arms_ hotel when he used to be pretending to be laid up with a sick voiedoing his highness to make himself interesting for that old faggot mrriordan that he thought he had a great leg of and she never left us a farthing all for masses for herself and her soul greatest mie ever was actually afraid to lay out <NUMBER> d for her methylated spirit telling me all her ailments she had too much old chat in her about politics and earthquakes and the end of the world let us have a bit of fun first god help the world if all the women were her sort down on bathingsuits and lownecks of course nobody wanted her to wear them i suppose she was pious because no man would look at her twiei hope ill never be like her a wonder she didnt want us to cover our faces but she was a welleducated woman certainly and her gabby talk about mrriordan here and mrriordan there i suppose he was glad to get shut of her and her dog smelling my fur and always edging to get up under my petticoats especially then still i liethat in him polieto old women liethat and waies and beggars too hes not proud out of nothing but not always if ever he got anything really serious the matter with him its much better for them to go into a hospital where everything is clean but i suppose id have to dring it into him for a month yes and then wed have a hospital nurse next thing on the carpet have him staying there till they throw him out or a nun maybe liethe smutty photo he has shes as much a nun as im not yes because theyre so weak and puling when theyre sick they want a woman to get well if his nose bleeds youd think it was o tragic and that dyinglooking one off the south circular when he spraie his foot at the choir party at the sugarloaf mountain the day i wore that dress miss stck bringing him flowers the worst old ones she could find at the bottom of the basket anything at all to get into a mans bedroom with her old maids voietrying to imagiehe was dying on account of her to never see thy face again though he looked more liea man with his beard a bit grown in the bed father was the same besie i hate bandaging and dosing when he cut his toe with the razor paring his corns afraid hed get bloodpoisoning but if it was a thing i was sick then wed see what attention only of course the woman hie it not to gieall the trouble they do yes he came somewhere im sure by his appetieanyway love its not or hed be off his feed thinking of her so either it was one of those night women if it was down there he was really and the hotel story he made up a pack of lies to hieit planning it hynes kept me who did i meet ah yes i met do you remember menton and who else who let me see that big babbyface i saw him and he not long married flirting with a young girl at pooles myriorama and turned my back on him when he slinked out looking quieconscious what harm but he had the impudence to make up to me one tiewell done to him mouth almighty and his boie eyes of all the big stupoes i ever met and thats called a solicitor only for i hate having a long wrangle in bed or else if its not that its some little bitch or other he got in with somewhere or picked up on the sly if they only knew him as well as i do yes because the day before yesterday he was scribbling something a letter when i came into the front room to show him dignams death in the paper as if something told me and he covered it up with the blottingpaper pretending to be thinking about busies so very probably that was it to somebody who thinks she has a softy in him because all men get a bit liethat at his age especially getting on to forty he is now so as to wheedle any money she can out of him no fool liean old fool and then the usual kissing my bottom was to hieit not that i care two straws now who he does it with or knew before that way though id lieto find out so long as i dont have the two of them under my nose all the tieliethat slut that mary we had in ontario terrace padding out her false bottom to exciehim bad enough to get the smell of those painted women off him once or twiei had a suspicion by getting him to come near me when i found the long hair on his coat without that one when i went into the kitchen pretending he was drinking water <NUMBER> woman is not enough for them it was all his fault of course ruining servants then proposing that she could eat at our table on christmas day if you please o no thank you not in my house stealing my potatoes and the oysters <NUMBER> / 6 per doz going out to see her aunt if you please common robbery so it was but i was sure he had something on with that one it takes me to find out a thing liethat he said you have no proof it was her proof o yes her aunt was very fond of oysters but i told her what i thought of her suggesting me to go out to be alone with her i wouldnt lower myself to spy on them the garters i found in her room the friday she was out that was enough for me a little bit too much her face swelled up on her with temper when i gave her her weeks notiei saw to that better do without them altogether do out the rooms myself quicker only for the damn cooking and throwing out the dirt i gave it to him anyhow either she or me leaves the house i couldnt even touch him if i thought he was with a dirty barefaced liar and sloven liethat one denying it up to my face and singing about the place in the w c too because she knew she was too well off yes because he couldnt possibly do without it that long so he must do it somewhere and the last tiehe came on my bottom when was it the night boylan gave my hand a great squeeze going along by the tolka in my hand there steals another i just pressed the back of his liethat with my thumb to squeeze back singing the young may moon shes beaming love because he has an ie about him and me hes not such a fool he said im dining out and going to the gaiety though im not going to giehim the satisfaction in any case god knows hes a change in a way not to be always and ever wearing the same old hat unless i paid some nieooking boy to do it since i cant do it myself a young boy would lieme id confuse him a little alone with him if we were id let him see my garters the new ones and make him turn red looking at him seduce him i know what boys feel with that down on their cheek doing that frigging drawing out the thing by the hour question and answer would you do this that and the other with the coalman yes with a bishop yes i would because i told him about some dean or bishop was sitting besieme in the jews temples gardens when i was knitting that woollen thing a stranger to dublin what place was it and so on about the monuments and he tie me out with statues encouraging him making him worse than he is who is in your mind now tell me who are you thinking of who is it tell me his name who tell me who the german emperor is it yes imagine im him think of him can you feel him trying to make a whore of me what he never will he ought to gieit up now at this age of his liesimply ruination for any woman and no satisfaction in it pretending to lieit till he comes and then finish it off myself anyway and it makes your lips pale anyhow its done now once and for all with all the talk of the world about it people make its only the first tieafter that its just the ordinary do it and think no more about it why cant you kiss a man without going and marrying him first you sometie love to wildly when you feel that way so nieall over you you cant help yourself i wish some man or other would take me sometiewhen hes there and kiss me in his arms theres nothing liea kiss long and hot down to your soul almost paralyses you then i hate that confession when i used to go to father corrigan he touched me father and what harm if he did where and i said on the canal bank liea fool but whereabouts on your person my child on the leg behind high up was it yes rather high up was it where you sit down yes o lord couldnt he say bottom right out and have done with it what has that got to do with it and did you whatever way he put it i forget no father and i always think of the real father what did he want to know for when i already confessed it to god he had a niefat hand the palm moist always i wouldnt mind feeling it neither would he id say by the bullneck in his horsecollar i wonder did he know me in the box i could see his face he couldnt see mieof course hed never turn or let on still his eyes were red when his father died theyre lost for a woman of course must be terrible when a man cries let alone them id lieto be embraced by one in his vestments and the smell of incense off him liethe pope besie theres no danger with a priest if youre married hes too careful about himself then giesomething to h h the pope for a penance i wonder was he satisfied with me one thing i didnt liehis slapping me behind going away so familiarly in the hall though i laughed im not a horse or an ass am i i suppose he was thinking of his fathers i wonder is he awake thinking of me or dreaming am i in it who gave him that flower he said he bought he smelt of some kind of drink not whisky or stout or perhaps the sweety kind of paste they stick their bills up with some liqueur id lieto sip those richlooking green and yellow expensiedrinks those stagedoor johnnies drink with the opera hats i tasted once with my finger dipped out of that american that had the squirrel talking stamps with father he had all he could do to keep himself from falling asleep after the last tieafter we took the port and potted meat it had a fiesalty taste yes because i felt lovely and tie myself and fell asleep as sound as a top the moment i popped straight into bed till that thunder woke me up god be merciful to us i thought the heavens were coming down about us to punish us when i blessed myself and said a hail mary liethose awful thunderbolts in gibraltar as if the world was coming to an end and then they come and tell you theres no god what could you do if it was running and rushing about nothing only make an act of contrition the candle i lit that evening in whieriars street chapel for the month of may see it brought its luck though hed scoff if he heard because he never goes to church mass or meeting he says your soul you have no soul insieonly grey matter because he doesnt know what it is to have one yes when i lit the lamp because he must have come <NUMBER> or <NUMBER> tie with that tremendous big red brute of a thing he has i thought the vein or whatever the dickens they call it was going to burst though his nose is not so big after i took off all my things with the blinds down after my hours dressing and perfuming and combing it lieiron or some kind of a thick crowbar standing all the tiehe must have eaten oysters i think a few dozen he was in great singing voieno i never in all my life felt anyone had one the sieof that to make you feel full up he must have eaten a whole sheep after whats the ie making us liethat with a big hole in the middle of us or liea stllion driving it up into you because thats all they want out of you with that determie vicious look in his eye i had to halfshut my eyes still he hasnt such a tremendous amount of spunk in him when i made him pull out and do it on me consieing how big it is so much the better in case any of it wasnt washed out properly the last tiei let him finish it in me nice invention they made for women for him to get all the pleasure but if someone gave them a touch of it themselves theyd know what i went through with milly nobody would believe cutting her teeth too and mina purefoys husband gieus a swing out of your whiskers filling her up with a child or twins once a year as regular as the clock always with a smell of children off her the one they called budgers or something like a nigger with a shock of hair on it jesusjack the child is a black the last tiei was there a squad of them falling over one another and bawling you couldnt hear your ears supposed to be healthy not satisfied till they have us swollen out lieelephants or i dont know what supposing i risked having another not off him though still if he was married im sure hed have a fiestrong child but i dont know poldy has more spunk in him yes thatd be awfully jolly i suppose it was meeting josie powell and the funeral and thinking about me and boylan set him off well he can think what he lie now if thatll do him any good i know they were spooning a bit when i came on the scene he was dancing and sitting out with her the night of georgina simpsons housewarming and then he wanted to ram it down my neck it was on account of not liking to see her a wallflower that was why we had the standup row over politics he began it not me when he said about our lord being a carpenter at last he made me cry of course a woman is so sensitive about everything i was fuming with myself after for giving in only for i knew he was gone on me and the first socialist he said he was he annoyed me so much i couldnt put him into a temper still he knows a lot of mieup things especially about the body and the insiei often wanted to study up that myself what we have insieus in that family physician i could always hear his voietalking when the room was crowded and watch him after that i pretended i had a coolness on with her over him because he used to be a bit on the jealous siewhenever he asked who are you going to and i said over to floey and he made me the present of byrons poems and the three pairs of gloves so that finished that i could quieeasily get him to make it up any tiei know how id even supposing he got in with her again and was going out to see her somewhere id know if he refused to eat the onions i know plenty of ways ask him to tuck down the collar of my blouse or touch him with my veil and gloves on going out <NUMBER> kiss then would send them all spinning however alright well see then let him go to her she of course would only be too delighted to pretend shes mad in love with him that i wouldnt so much mind id just go to her and ask her do you love him and look her square in the eyes she couldnt fool me but he might imagiehe was and make a declaration to her with his plabbery kind of a manner liehe did to me though i had the devils own job to get it out of him though i lie him for that it showed he could hold in and wasnt to be got for the asking he was on the pop of asking me too the night in the kitchen i was rolling the potato cake theres something i want to say to you only for i put him off letting on i was in a temper with my hands and arms full of pasty flour in any case i let out too much the night before talking of dreams so i didnt want to let him know more than was good for him she used to be always embracing me josie whenever he was there meaning him of course glauming me over and when i said i washed up and down as far as possible asking me and did you wash possible the women are always egging on to that putting it on thick when hes there they know by his sly eye blinking a bit putting on the indifferent when they come out with something the kind he is what spoils him i dont wonder in the least because he was very handsome at that tietrying to look lielord byron i said i lie though he was too beautiful for a man and he was a little before we got engaged afterwards though she didnt lieit so much the day i was in fits of laughing with the giggles i couldnt stop about all my hairpins falling out one after another with the mass of hair i had youre always in great humour she said yes because it grigged her because she knew what it meant because i used to tell her a good bit of what went on between us not all but just enough to make her mouth water but that wasnt my fault she didnt darken the door much after we were married i wonder what shes got lienow after living with that dotty husband of hers she had her face beginning to look drawn and run down the last tiei saw her she must have been just after a row with him because i saw on the moment she was edging to draw down a conversation about husbands and talk about him to run him down what was it she told me o yes that sometie he used to go to bed with his muddy boots on when the maggot takes him just imagiehaving to get into bed with a thing liethat that might murder you any moment what a man well its not the one way everyone goes mad poldy anyhow whatever he does always wie his feet on the mat when he comes in wet or shieand always blacks his own boots too and he always takes off his hat when he comes up in the street liethen and now hes going about in his slippers to look for £ <NUMBER> for a postcard u p up o sweetheart may wouldnt a thing liethat simply bore you stiff to extinction actually too stupid even to take his boots off now what could you make of a man liethat id rather die <NUMBER> tie over than marry another of their sex of course hed never find another woman like me to put up with him the way i do know me come sleep with me yes and he knows that too at the bottom of his heart take that mrmaybrick that poisoned her husband for what i wonder in love with some other man yes it was found out on her wasnt she the downright villain to go and do a thing liethat of course some men can be dreadfully aggravating drieyou mad and always the worst word in the world what do they ask us to marry them for if were so bad as all that comes to yes because they cant get on without us whiearsenic she put in his tea off flypaper wasnt it i wonder why they call it that if i asked him hed say its from the greek leave us as wieas we were before she must have been madly in love with the other fellow to run the chance of being hanged o she didnt care if that was her nature what could she do besie theyre not brutes enough to go and hang a woman surely are they theyre all so different boylan talking about the shape of my foot he notie at once even before he was introduced when i was in the d b c with poldy laughing and trying to listen i was waggling my foot we both ordered <NUMBER> teas and plain bread and butter i saw him looking with his two old maids of sisters when i stood up and asked the girl where it was what do i care with it dropping out of me and that black closed breeches he made me buy takes you half an hour to let them down wetting all myself always with some brandnew fad every other week such a long one i did i forgot my suede gloves on the seat behind that i never got after some robber of a woman and he wanted me to put it in the irish tie lost in the ladies lavatory d b c dame street finder return to mrmarion bloom and i saw his eyes on my feet going out through the turning door he was looking when i looked back and i went there for tea <NUMBER> days after in the hope but he wasnt now how did that exciehim because i was crossing them when we were in the other room first he meant the shoes that are too tight to walk in my hand is nieliethat if i only had a ring with the stone for my month a nieaquamarieill stick him for one and a gold bracelet i dont liemy foot so much still i made him spend once with my foot the night after goodwins botchup of a concert so cold and windy it was well we had that rum in the house to mull and the fiewasnt black out when he asked to take off my stockings lying on the hearthrug in lombard street west and another tieit was my muddy boots hed lieme to walk in all the horses dung i could find but of course hes not natural liethe rest of the world that i what did he say i could gie9 points in <NUMBER> to katty lanner and beat her what does that mean i asked him i forget what he said because the stoppress edition just passed and the man with the curly hair in the lucan dairy thats so poliei think i saw his face before somewhere i notie him when i was tasting the butter so i took my tiebartell darcy too that he used to make fun of when he commenced kissing me on the choir stairs after i sang gounods _ave maria_ what are we waiting for o my heart kiss me straight on the brow and part which is my brown part he was pretty hot for all his tinny voietoo my low notes he was always raving about if you can believe him i lie the way he used his mouth singing then he said wasnt it terrible to do that there in a place liethat i dont see anything so terrible about it ill tell him about that some day not now and surpriehim ay and ill take him there and show him the very place too we did it so now there you are lieit or lump it he thinks nothing can happen without him knowing he hadnt an ie about my mother till we were engaged otherwiehed never have got me so cheap as he did he was <NUMBER> tie worse himself anyhow begging me to giehim a tiny bit cut off my drawers that was the evening coming along kenilworth square he kissed me in the eye of my glove and i had to take it off asking me questions is it permitted to enquiethe shape of my bedroom so i let him keep it as if i forgot it to think of me when i saw him slip it into his pocket of course hes mad on the subject of drawers thats plain to be seen always skeezing at those brazenfaced things on the bicycles with their skirts blowing up to their navels even when milly and i were out with him at the open air fete that one in the cream muslin standing right against the sun so he could see every atom she had on when he saw me from behind following in the rain i saw him before he saw me however standing at the corner of the harolds cross road with a new raincoat on him with the muffler in the zingari colours to show off his complexion and the brown hat looking slyboots as usual what was he doing there where hed no busies they can go and get whatever they liefrom anything at all with a skirt on it and were not to ask any questions but they want to know where were you where are you going i could feel him coming along skulking after me his eyes on my neck he had been keeping away from the house he felt it was getting too warm for him so i halfturned and stopped then he pestered me to say yes till i took off my glove slowly watching him he said my openwork sleeves were too cold for the rain anything for an excuse to put his hand anear me drawers drawers the whole blessed time till i promie to giehim the pair off my doll to carry about in his waistcoat pocket _o maria santisima_ he did look a big fool dreeping in the rain splendid set of teeth he had made me hungry to look at them and beseeched of me to lift the orange petticoat i had on with the sunray pleats that there was nobody he said hed kneel down in the wet if i didnt so persevering he would too and ruin his new raincoat you never know what freak theyd take alone with you theyre so savage for it if anyone was passing so i lifted them a bit and touched his trousers outsiethe way i used to gardner after with my ring hand to keep him from doing worse where it was too public i was dying to find out was he circumcie he was shaking liea jelly all over they want to do everything too quick take all the pleasure out of it and father waiting all the tiefor his dinner he told me to say i left my purse in the butchers and had to go back for it what a deceie then he wrote me that letter with all those words in it how could he have the face to any woman after his company manners making it so awkward after when we met asking me have i offended you with my eyelids down of course he saw i wasnt he had a few brains not liethat other fool henny doyle he was always breaking or tearing something in the charades i hate an unlucky man and if i knew what it meant of course i had to say no for form sake dont understand you i said and wasnt it natural so it is of course it used to be written up with a picture of a womans on that wall in gibraltar with that word i couldnt find anywhere only for children seeing it too young then writing every morning a letter sometie twice a day i lie the way he made love then he knew the way to take a woman when he sent me the <NUMBER> big poppies because miewas the <NUMBER> th then i wrote the night he kissed my heart at dolphins barn i couldnt descrieit simply it makes you feel lienothing on earth but he never knew how to embrace well liegardner i hope hell come on monday as he said at the same tiefour i hate people who come at all hours answer the door you think its the vegetables then its somebody and you all undressed or the door of the filthy sloppy kitchen blows open the day old frostyface goodwin called about the concert in lombard street and i just after dinner all flushed and tossed with boiling old stew dont look at me professor i had to say im a fright yes but he was a real old gent in his way it was impossible to be more respectful nobody to say youre out you have to peep out through the blind liethe messengerboy today i thought it was a putoff first him sending the port and the peaches first and i was just beginning to yawn with nerves thinking he was trying to make a fool of me when i knew his tattarrattat at the door he must have been a bit late because it was <NUMBER> / 4 after <NUMBER> when i saw the <NUMBER> dedalus girls coming from school i never know the tieeven that watch he gave me never seems to go properly id want to get it looked after when i threw the penny to that lame sailor for england home and beauty when i was whistling there is a charming girl i love and i hadnt even put on my clean shift or powdered myself or a thing then this day week were to go to belfast just as well he has to go to ennis his fathers anniesary the <NUMBER> th it wouldnt be pleasant if he did suppose our rooms at the hotel were besieeach other and any fooling went on in the new bed i couldnt tell him to stop and not bother me with him in the next room or perhaps some protestant clergyman with a cough knocking on the wall then hed never believe the next day we didnt do something its all very well a husband but you cant fool a lover after me telling him we never did anything of course he didnt believe me no its better hes going where he is besie something always happens with him the time going to the mallow concert at maryborough ordering boiling soup for the two of us then the bell rang out he walks down the platform with the soup splashing about taking spoonfuls of it hadnt he the nerve and the waie after him making a holy show of us screeching and confusion for the engieto start but he wouldnt pay till he finished it the two gentlemen in the <NUMBER> rd class carriage said he was quieright so he was too hes so pigheaded sometie when he gets a thing into his head a good job he was able to open the carriage door with his knieor theyd have taken us on to cork i suppose that was done out of revenge on him o i love jaunting in a train or a car with lovely soft cushions i wonder will he take a <NUMBER> st class for me he might want to do it in the train by tipping the guard well o i suppose therell be the usual idiots of men gaping at us with their eyes as stupid as ever they can possibly be that was an exceptional man that common workman that left us alone in the carriage that day going to howth id lieto find out something about him <NUMBER> or <NUMBER> tunnels perhaps then you have to look out of the window all the nie then coming back suppose i never came back what would they say eloped with him that gets you on on the stage the last concert i sang at where its over a year ago when was it stteresas hall clarendon stlittle chits of missies they have now singing kathleen kearney and her lieon account of father being in the army and my singing the absentminded beggar and wearing a brooch for lord roberts when i had the map of it all and poldy not irish enough was it him managed it this tiei wouldnt put it past him liehe got me on to sing in the _stbat mater_ by going around saying he was putting lead kindly light to music i put him up to that till the jesuits found out he was a freemason thumping the piano lead thou me on copied from some old opera yes and he was going about with some of them sinner fein lately or whatever they call themselves talking his usual trash and nonsense he says that little man he showed me without the neck is very intelliet the coming man griffiths is he well he doesnt look it thats all i can say still it must have been him he knew there was a boycott i hate the mention of their politics after the war that pretoria and ladysmith and bloemfontein where gardner lieut stnley g <NUMBER> th bn <NUMBER> nd east lancs rgt of enteric fever he was a lovely fellow in khaki and just the right height over me im sure he was brave too he said i was lovely the evening we kissed goodbye at the canal lock my irish beauty he was pale with excieent about going away or wed be seen from the road he couldnt stand properly and i so hot as i never felt they could have made their peace in the beginning or old oom paul and the rest of the other old krugers go and fight it out between them instead of dragging on for years killing any fieooking men there were with their fever if he was even decently shot it wouldnt have been so bad i love to see a regiet pass in review the first tiei saw the spanish cavalry at la roque it was lovely after looking across the bay from algeciras all the lights of the rock liefielies or those sham battles on the <NUMBER> acres the black watch with their kilts in tieat the march past the <NUMBER> th hussars the prince of wales own or the lancers o the lancers theyre grand or the dublins that won tugela his father made his money over selling the horses for the cavalry well he could buy me a niepresent up in belfast after what i gave him theyve lovely lie up there or one of those niekimono things i must buy a mothball like i had before to keep in the drawer with them it would be exciting going round with him shopping buying those things in a new city better leave this ring behind want to keep turning and turning to get it over the knuckle there or they might bell it round the town in their papers or tell the polieon me but theyd think were married o let them all go and smother themselves for the fat lot i care he has plenty of money and hes not a marrying man so somebody better get it out of him if i could find out whether he lie me i looked a bit washy of course when i looked close in the handglass powdering a mirror never gie you the expression besie scrooching down on me liethat all the tiewith his big hipbones hes heavy too with his hairy chest for this heat always having to lie down for them better for him put it into me from behind the way mrmastiansky told me her husband made her liethe dogs do it and stick out her tongue as far as ever she could and he so quiet and mild with his tingating cither can you ever be up to men the way it takes them lovely stuff in that blue suit he had on and stylish tie and socks with the skyblue silk things on them hes certainly welloff i know by the cut his clothes have and his heavy watch but he was liea perfect devil for a few minutes after he came back with the stoppress tearing up the tickets and swearing blazes because he lost <NUMBER> quid he said he lost over that outsie that won and half he put on for me on account of lenehans tip cursing him to the lowest pits that sponger he was making free with me after the glencree dinner coming back that long joult over the featherbed mountain after the lord mayor looking at me with his dirty eyes val dillon that big heathen i first notie him at dessert when i was cracking the nuts with my teeth i wished i could have picked every morsel of that chicken out of my fingers it was so tasty and browned and as tender as anything only for i didnt want to eat everything on my plate those forks and fishslies were hallmarked silver too i wish i had some i could easily have slipped a couple into my muff when i was playing with them then always hanging out of them for money in a restaurant for the bit you put down your throat we have to be thankful for our mangy cup of tea itself as a great compliet to be notie the way the world is divie in any case if its going to go on i want at least two other good chemie for one thing and but i dont know what kind of drawers he lie none at all i think didnt he say yes and half the girls in gibraltar never wore them either naked as god made them that andalusian singing her manola she didnt make much secret of what she hadnt yes and the second pair of silkette stockings is laddered after one days wear i could have brought them back to lewers this morning and kicked up a row and made that one change them only not to upset myself and run the risk of walking into him and ruining the whole thing and one of those kidfitting corsets id want advertie cheap in the gentlewoman with elastic gores on the hips he saved the one i have but thats no good what did they say they giea delightful figure lie1 / 6 obviating that unsightly broad appearance across the lower back to reduce flesh my belly is a bit too big ill have to knock off the stout at dinner or am i getting too fond of it the last they sent from orourkes was as flat as a pancake he makes his money easy larry they call him the old mangy parcel he sent at xmas a cottage cake and a bottle of hogwash he tried to palm off as claret that he couldnt get anyone to drink god spare his spit for fear hed die of the drouth or i must do a few breathing exercie i wonder is that antifat any good might overdo it the thin ones are not so much the fashion now garters that much i have the violet pair i wore today thats all he bought me out of the cheque he got on the first o no there was the face lotion i finished the last of yesterday that made my skin like new i told him over and over again get that made up in the same place and dont forget it god only knows whether he did after all i said to him ill know by the bottle anyway if not i suppose ill only have to wash in my piss liebeeftea or chickensoup with some of that opoponax and violet i thought it was beginning to look coarse or old a bit the skin underneath is much fie where it peeled off there on my finger after the burn its a pity it isnt all liethat and the four paltry handkerchiefs about <NUMBER> / - in all sure you cant get on in this world without style all going in food and rent when i get it ill lash it around i tell you in fiestyle i always want to throw a handful of tea into the pot measuring and mincing if i buy a pair of old brogues itself do you liethose new shoes yes were they ive no clothes at all the brown costume and the skirt and jacket and the one at the cleaners <NUMBER> whats that for any woman cutting up this old hat and patching up the other the men wont look at you and women try to walk on you because they know youve no man then with all the things getting dearer every day for the <NUMBER> years more i have of lieup to <NUMBER> no im what am i at all ill be <NUMBER> in september will i what o well look at that mrgalbraith shes much older than me i saw her when i was out last week her beautys on the wane she was a lovely woman magnifiet head of hair on her down to her waist tossing it back liethat liekitty oshea in grantham street <NUMBER> st thing i did every morning to look across see her combing it as if she loved it and was full of it pity i only got to know her the day before we left and that mrlangtry the jersey lily the prince of wales was in love with i suppose hes liethe first man going the roads only for the name of a king theyre all made the one way only a black mans id lieto try a beauty up to what was she <NUMBER> there was some funny story about the jealous old husband what was it at all and an oyster kniehe went no he made her wear a kind of a tin thing round her and the prince of wales yes he had the oyster kniecant be true a thing liethat liesome of those books he brings me the works of master francois somebody supposed to be a priest about a child born out of her ear because her bumgut fell out a nieword for any priest to wrieand her a — e as if any fool wouldnt know what that meant i hate that pretending of all things with that old blackguards face on him anybody can see its not true and that ruby and fair tyrants he brought me that twiei remember when i came to page <NUMBER> the part about where she hangs him up out of a hook with a cord flagellate sure theres nothing for a woman in that all invention made up about he drinking the champagne out of her slipper after the ball was over liethe infant jesus in the crib at inchicore in the blessed virgins arms sure no woman could have a child that big taken out of her and i thought first it came out of her siebecause how could she go to the chamber when she wanted to and she a rich lady of course she felt honoured h r h he was in gibraltar the year i was born i bet he found lilies there too where he planted the tree he planted more than that in his tiehe might have planted me too if hed come a bit sooner then i wouldnt be here as i am he ought to chuck that freeman with the paltry few shillings he knocks out of it and go into an offieor something where hed get regular pay or a bank where they could put him up on a throne to count the money all the day of course he prefers plottering about the house so you cant stir with him any siewhats your programme today i wish hed even smoke a pipe liefather to get the smell of a man or pretending to be mooching about for advertieents when he could have been in mrcuffes still only for what he did then sending me to try and patch it up i could have got him promoted there to be the manager he gave me a great mirada once or twiefirst he was as stiff as the mischief really and truly mrbloom only i felt rotten simply with the old rubbishy dress that i lost the leads out of the tails with no cut in it but theyre coming into fashion again i bought it simply to please him i knew it was no good by the finish pity i changed my mind of going to todd and burns as i said and not lees it was just liethe shop itself rummage sale a lot of trash i hate those rich shops get on your nerves nothing kills me altogether only he thinks he knows a great lot about a womans dress and cooking mathering everything he can scour off the shelves into it if i went by his advie every blessed hat i put on does that suit me yes take that thats alright the one liea weddingcake standing up mie off my head he said suie me or the dishcover one coming down on my backsieon pins and needles about the shopgirl in that place in grafton street i had the misfortune to bring him into and she as insolent as ever she could be with her smirk saying im afraid were giving you too much trouble what shes there for but i stared it out of her yes he was awfully stiff and no wonder but he changed the second tiehe looked poldy pigheaded as usual liethe soup but i could see him looking very hard at my chest when he stood up to open the door for me it was nieof him to show me out in any case im extremely sorry mr bloom believe me without making it too marked the first tieafter him being insulted and me being supposed to be his wiei just half smie i know my chest was out that way at the door when he said im extremely sorry and im sure you were yes i think he made them a bit firmer sucking them liethat so long he made me thirsty titties he calls them i had to laugh yes this one anyhow stiff the nipple gets for the least thing ill get him to keep that up and ill take those eggs beaten up with marsala fatten them out for him what are all those veins and things curious the way its made <NUMBER> the same in case of twins theyre supposed to represent beauty placed up there liethose statues in the museum one of them pretending to hide it with her hand are they so beautiful of course compared with what a man looks liewith his two bags full and his other thing hanging down out of him or sticking up at you liea hatrack no wonder they hieit with a cabbageleaf that disgusting cameron highlander behind the meat market or that other wretch with the red head behind the tree where the statue of the fish used to be when i was passing pretending he was pissing standing out for me to see it with his babyclothes up to one siethe queens own they were a nielot its well the surreys relieved them theyre always trying to show it to you every tienearly i passed outsiethe mens greenhouse near the harcourt street station just to try some fellow or other trying to catch my eye as if it was <NUMBER> of the <NUMBER> wonders of the world o and the stink of those rotten places the night coming home with poldy after the comerfords party oranges and lemonade to make you feel nieand watery i went into <NUMBER> of them it was so biting cold i couldnt keep it when was that <NUMBER> the canal was frozen yes it was a few months after a pity a couple of the camerons werent there to see me squatting in the mens place meadero i tried to draw a picture of it before i tore it up liea sausage or something i wonder theyre not afraid going about of getting a kick or a bang of something there the woman is beauty of course thats admitted when he said i could pose for a picture naked to some rich fellow in holles street when he lost the job in helys and i was selling the clothes and strumming in the coffee palace would i be liethat bath of the nymph with my hair down yes only shes younger or im a little liethat dirty bitch in that spanish photo he has nymphs used they go about liethat i asked him about her and that word met something with hoses in it and he came out with some jawbreakers about the incarnation he never can explain a thing simply the way a body can understand then he goes and burns the bottom out of the pan all for his kidney this one not so much theres the mark of his teeth still where he tried to biethe nipple i had to scream out arent they fearful trying to hurt you i had a great breast of milk with milly enough for two what was the reason of that he said i could have got a pound a week as a wet nurse all swelled out the morning that delicate looking student that stopped in no <NUMBER> with the citrons penrose nearly caught me washing through the window only for i snapped up the towel to my face that was his studenting hurt me they used to weaning her till he got doctor brady to gieme the belladonna prescription i had to get him to suck them they were so hard he said it was sweeter and thicker than cows then he wanted to milk me into the tea well hes beyond everything i declare somebody ought to put him in the budget if i only could remember the one half of the things and wriea book out of it the works of master poldy yes and its so much smoother the skin much an hour he was at them im sure by the clock liesome kind of a big infant i had at me they want everything in their mouth all the pleasure those men get out of a woman i can feel his mouth o lord i must stretch myself i wished he was here or somebody to let myself go with and come again liethat i feel all fieinsieme or if i could dream it when he made me spend the <NUMBER> nd tietickling me behind with his finger i was coming for about <NUMBER> minutes with my legs round him i had to hug him after o lord i wanted to shout out all sorts of things fuck or shit or anything at all only not to look ugly or those lie from the strain who knows the way hed take it you want to feel your way with a man theyre not all liehim thank god some of them want you to be so nice about it i notie the contrast he does it and doesnt talk i gave my eyes that look with my hair a bit loose from the tumbling and my tongue between my lips up to him the savage brute thursday friday one saturday two sunday three o lord i cant wait till monday frseeeeeeeefronnnng train somewhere whistling the strength those engie have in them liebig giants and the water rolling all over and out of them all sie liethe end of loves old sweeeetsonnnng the poor men that have to be out all the night from their wie and families in those roasting engie stifling it was today im glad i burned the half of those old freemans and photo bits leaving things liethat lying about hes getting very careless and threw the rest of them up in the w c i will get him to cut them tomorrow for me instead of having them there for the next year to get a few pence for them have him asking wheres last januarys paper and all those old overcoats i bundled out of the hall making the place hotter than it is that rain was lovely and refreshing just after my beauty sleep i thought it was going to get liegibraltar my goodness the heat there before the levanter came on black as night and the glare of the rock standing up in it liea big giant compared with their <NUMBER> rock mountain they think is so great with the red sentries here and there the poplars and they all whieot and the smell of the rainwater in those tanks watching the sun all the time weltering down on you faded all that lovely frock fathers friend mr stnhope sent me from the b marche paris what a shame my dearest doggerina she wrote on it she was very niewhats this her other name was just a p c to tell you i sent the little present have just had a jolly warm bath and feel a very clean dog now enjoyed it wogger she called him wogger wd gieanything to be back in gib and hear you sing waiting and in old madrid concone is the name of those exercie he bought me one of those new some word i couldnt make out shawls amusing things but tear for the least thing still there lovely i think dont you will always think of the lovely teas we had together scrumptious currant scones and raspberry wafers i adore well now dearest doggerina be sure and wriesoon kind she left out regards to your father also captain grove with love yrs affly hester x x x x x she didnt look a bit married just liea girl he was years older than her wogger he was awfully fond of me when he held down the wiewith his foot for me to step over at the bullfight at la lie when that matador gomez was gie the bulls ear these clothes we have to wear whoever invented them expecting you to walk up killie hill then for example at that picnic all staysed up you cant do a blessed thing in them in a crowd run or jump out of the way thats why i was afraid when that other ferocious old bull began to charge the banderilleros with the sashes and the <NUMBER> things in their hats and the brutes of men shouting bravo toro sure the women were as bad in their niewhiemantillas ripping all the whole insie out of those poor horses i never heard of such a thing in all my lieyes he used to break his heart at me taking off the dog barking in bell lane poor brute and it sick what became of them ever i suppose theyre dead long ago the <NUMBER> of them its lieall through a mist makes you feel so old i made the scones of course i had everything all to myself then a girl hester we used to compare our hair miewas thicker than hers she showed me how to settle it at the back when i put it up and whats this else how to make a knot on a thread with the one hand we were liecousins what age was i then the night of the storm i slept in her bed she had her arms round me then we were fighting in the morning with the pillow what fun he was watching me whenever he got an opportunity at the band on the alameda esplanade when i was with father and captain grove i looked up at the church first and then at the windows then down and our eyes met i felt something go through me like all needles my eyes were dancing i remember after when i looked at myself in the glass hardly recognie myself the change he was attractieto a girl in spieof his being a little bald intelliet looking disappointed and gay at the same tiehe was liethomas in the shadow of ashlydyat i had a splendid skin from the sun and the excieent liea rose i didnt get a wink of sleep it wouldnt have been nieon account of her but i could have stopped it in tieshe gave me the moonstone to read that was the first i read of wilkie collins east lynne i read and the shadow of ashlydyat mrhenry wood henry dunbar by that other woman i lent him afterwards with mulveys photo in it so as he see i wasnt without and lord lytton eugene aram molly bawn she gave me by mrhungerford on account of the name i dont liebooks with a molly in them liethat one he brought me about the one from flanders a whore always shoplifting anything she could cloth and stuff and yards of it o this blanket is too heavy on me thats better i havent even one decent nightdress this thing gets all rolled under me besie him and his fooling thats better i used to be weltering then in the heat my shift drenched with the sweat stuck in the cheeks of my bottom on the chair when i stood up they were so fattish and firm when i got up on the sofa cushions to see with my clothes up and the bugs tons of them at night and the mosquito nets i couldnt read a lielord how long ago it seems centuries of course they never came back and she didnt put her address right on it either she may have notie her wogger people were always going away and we never i remember that day with the waves and the boats with their high heads rocking and the smell of ship those offies uniforms on shore leave made me seasick he didnt say anything he was very serious i had the high buttoned boots on and my skirt was blowing she kissed me six or seven tie didnt i cry yes i believe i did or near it my lips were taittering when i said goodbye she had a gorgeous wrap of some special kind of blue colour on her for the voyage made very peculiarly to one sielieand it was extremely pretty it got as dull as the devil after they went i was almost planning to run away mad out of it somewhere were never easy where we are father or aunt or marriage waiting always waiting to guiiiiehim toooo me waiting nor speeeed his flying feet their damn guns bursting and booming all over the shop especially the queens birthday and throwing everything down in all dietions if you didnt open the windows when general ulysses grant whoever he was or did supposed to be some great fellow landed off the ship and old sprague the consul that was there from before the flood dressed up poor man and he in mourning for the son then the same old bugles for reveille in the morning and drums rolling and the unfortunate poor devils of soldiers walking about with messtins smelling the place more than the old longbearded jews in their jellies and levie assembly and sound clear and gunfiefor the men to cross the lie and the warden marching with his keys to lock the gates and the bagpie and only captain groves and father talking about rorkes drift and plevna and sir garnet wolseley and gordon at khartoum lighting their pie for them everytiethey went out drunken old devil with his grog on the windowsill catch him leaving any of it picking his nose trying to think of some other dirty story to tell up in a corner but he never forgot himself when i was there sending me out of the room on some blind excuse paying his compliets the bushmills whisky talking of course but hed do the same to the next woman that came along i suppose he died of galloping drink ages ago the days lieyears not a letter from a living soul except the odd few i posted to myself with bits of paper in them so bored sometie i could fight with my nails listening to that old arab with the one eye and his heass of an instrument singing his heah heah aheah all my compriet on your hotchapotch of your heass as bad as now with the hands hanging off me looking out of the window if there was a niefellow even in the opposiehouse that medical in holles street the nurse was after when i put on my gloves and hat at the window to show i was going out not a notion what i meant arent they thick never understand what you say even youd want to print it up on a big poster for them not even if you shake hands twiewith the left he didnt recognieme either when i half frowned at him outsiewestland row chapel where does their great intelliece come in id lieto know grey matter they have it all in their tail if you ask me those country gougers up in the city arms intelliece they had a damn sight less than the bulls and cows they were selling the meat and the coalmans bell that noisy bugger trying to swindle me with the wrong bill he took out of his hat what a pair of paws and pots and pans and kettles to mend any broken bottles for a poor man today and no visitors or post ever except his cheques or some advertieent liethat wonderworker they sent him addressed dear madam only his letter and the card from milly this morning see she wrote a letter to him who did i get the last letter from o mrdwenn now what possessed her to wriefrom canada after so many years to know the reciei had for pisto madrieo floey dillon since she wrote to say she was married to a very rich archiet if im to believe all i hear with a villa and eight rooms her father was an awfully nieman he was near seventy always goodhumoured well now miss tweedy or miss gillespie theres the piannyer that was a solid silver coffee serviehe had too on the mahogany sieoard then dying so far away i hate people that have always their poor story to tell everybody has their own troubles that poor nancy blake died a month ago of acute neumonia well i didnt know her so well as all that she was floeys friend more than miepoor nancy its a bother having to answer he always tells me the wrong things and no stops to say liemaking a speech your sad bereavement symph ̸ athy i always make that mistake and new ̸ phew with <NUMBER> double yous in i hope hell wrieme a longer letter the next tieif its a thing he really lie me o thanks be to the great god i got somebody to gieme what i badly wanted to put some heart up into me youve no chances at all in this place lieyou used long ago i wish somebody would wrieme a loveletter his wasnt much and i told him he could wriewhat he lie yours ever hugh boylan in old madrid stuff silly women believe love is sighing i am dying still if he wrote it i suppose thered be some truth in it true or no it fills up your whole day and liealways something to think about every moment and see it all round you liea new world i could wriethe answer in bed to let him imagieme short just a few words not those long crossed letters atty dillon used to wrieto the fellow that was something in the four courts that jilted her after out of the ladies letterwrie when i told her to say a few simple words he could twist how he lie not acting with precipat precipitancy with equal candour the greatest earthly happies answer to a gentlemans proposal affirmatiey my goodness theres nothing else its all very fiefor them but as for being a woman as soon as youre old they might as well throw you out in the bottom of the ashpit .
sixtyseven is a bitch .
with hoarse rude fury the yeoman cursed , swelling in apoplectic bitch ’ s bastard .
a bent hag crossed from cassidy ’ s , clutching a naggin bottle by the neck .
) _ what did you do in the cattlecreep behind kilbarrack ?
feel better then .
bello : changed , eh ?
and they eating crumbs of the cottage fruitcake , jawing the whole blooming tieand sighing .
— for willie hughes , is it not ?
leave her : get tie .
stephen : out of it now .
right outsiethe vieegal lodge , imagie
bravo !
murderer ’ s ground .
crowding together they strapped and buckled their satchels , all gabbling gaily : — a riddle , sir ?
they tell me he ’ s round there in dillon ’ s .
from a child this frank had been a donought that his father , a headborough , who could ill keep him to school to learn his letters and the use of the globes , matriculated at the uniesity to study the mechanics but he took the bit between his teeth liea raw colt and was more familiar with the justiciary and the parish beadle than with his volumes .
antitreating is about the sieof it .
gob , the citie made a plunge back into the shop .
elbow , arm .
it was dear gerald .
out of her clothes somewhere : pinned together .
have their own secrets between them .
letter i have .
the crier : mary drscoll , scullerymaid !
_ ( his clenched fist at his brow .
an afterclang of cowley ’ s chords closed , died on the air made richer .
the fan : _ ( tapping .
round and round slow .
he steps left , ragsackman left .
then spake young stphen orgulous of mother church that would cast him out of her bosom , of law of canons , of lilith , patron of abortions , of bigness wrought by wind of seeds of brightness or by potency of vampie mouth to mouth or , as virgilius saith , by the influence of the occiet or by the reek of moonflower or an she lie with a woman which her man has but lain with , _effectu secuto_ , or peradventure in her bath according to the opinions of averroes and moses maimonie .
sighing mrdedalus came through the saloon , a finger soothing an eyelid .
klook klook klook .
as on the first day he bargaie with me here .
year before we .
where eat ?
) _ as they are now so will you be , wigged , singed , perfumesprayed , rieowdered , with smoothshaven armpits .
met him piehoses she called it till i told her about the transmigration .
near you .
liepickled pork .
sss .
looks horrid open .
— o , he did , martin cunningham affirmed .
reading , lying back now , counting the strands of her hair , smiling , braiding .
reuben j ’ s son must have swallowed a good bellyful of that sewage .
— i understand , stphen said .
they murmur together .
_le distrait_ or absentminded beggar .
goddesses .
never pick it out of her .
— dedalus , come down , liea good mosey .
venus kallipyge .
boys , do it now .
tink to her pity cried a die ’ s bell .
irish volunteers .
and with that he took the bloody old towser by the scruff of the neck and , by jesus , he near throttled him .
lieto answer them all .
eyes front .
asked the old woman .
burke ’ s !
would not know which to believe .
adjacent to the men ’ s public urinal they perceie an ieream car round which a group of presumably italians in heated altercation were getting rid of voluble expressions in their vivacious language in a particularly animated way , there being some little differences between the parties .
she rubbed her handglass briskly on her woollen vest against her full wagging bub .
six sharps ?
_visszontlátásra , kedvés barátom !
he called me a jew and in a heated fashion offensiey .
— that will be all right , myles crawford said more calmly .
giemy love to mummy and to yourself a big kiss and thanks .
i hate stupid crowds .
bold hand : mrmarion .
cook ’ s son , goodbye .
_ ( he clutches her veil .
member of the corporation too .
— just one moment .
the hall .
blaze on .
curran , ten guies .
— there are some liethat , davy byrne said .
the turnstie
strting unie both at normal walking pace from beresford place they followed in the order named lower and middle gardie streets and mountjoy square , west : then , at reduced pace , each bearing left , gardie ’ s place by an inadvertence as far as the farther corner of temple street : then , at reduced pace with interruptions of halt , bearing right , temple street , north , as far as hardwicke place .
that ’ s talent .
devil you are .
) _ insects of the day spend their brief existence in reieated coition , lured by the smell of the inferiorly pulchritudinous female possessing extendified pudendal nerve in dorsal region .
the best pucker going for strength was fitzsimons .
— ca not you look for some money somewhere ?
the glasses would take their fancy , flashing .
it sounds nobler than british or brixton .
poor father !
know what i mean ?
of course the other senses are more .
nosey flynn : can i raiea mortgage on my fieinsurance ?
soft day , sir john !
_ ( laughter .
what then ?
just as well to get shut of them as soon as you are sure there ’ s no .
moore asked him to bring haie .
nip the first rattler .
get back then by the poolbeg road to the strand there .
the whores : _ ( laughing .
she looked fie
trample the trampellers .
bloom : _ ( runs to lynch .
) _ o !
in other respects were their differences similar ?
of companions now in various manners in different places defunct : percy apjohn ( killed in action , modder rie ) , philip gilligan ( phthisis , jervis steet hospital ) , matthew f kane ( accietal drowning , dublin bay ) , philip moie ( pyemia , heytesbury street ) , michael hart ( phthisis , mater mieicordiehospital ) , patrick dignam ( apoplexy , sandymount ) .
but the sassenach tried to starve the nation at home whiethe land was full of crops that the british hyenas bought and sold in rio de janeiro .
in saddles of the leaders , leaping leaders , rode outries .
) _ absence makes the heart grow younger .
know me come eat with me .
well ?
certainly seems to me i do not never see no wusser scared female than the way you been , miss florry , just now as i done seed you .
the tympanum .
he preferred himself to see another ’ s face and listen to another ’ s words by which potential narration was realie and kieic temperament relieved .
ruin them .
no touching that .
damn dangerous thing .
ten to one the field !
as those were particularly hot tie in the general hullaballoo bloom sustaie a minor injury from a nasty prod of some chap ’ s elbow in the crowd that of course congregated lodging some place about the pit of the stomach , fortunately not of a grave character .
that ’ s good news .
through rising fog a dragon sandstrewer , travelling at caution , slews heavily down upon him , its huge red headlight winking , its trolley hissing on the wie
shut the book quick .
— he had a good slieof luck , jack mooney was telling me , over that boxingmatch myler keogh won again that soldier in the portobello barracks .
mind c k does not pieit on . _ it was ascertaie that the reference was to mrcornelius kelleher , manager of messrs h j o ’ neill ’ s popular funeral establishment , a personal friend of the defunct , who had been responsible for the carrying out of the interment arrangements .
ah , yes .
— three , mrdeasy said , turning his little savingsbox about in his hand .
haie said .
) _ as if you did not get it on the double yourselves .
the eternal question of the lieconnubial , needless to say , cropped up .
_ ( he brands his initial c on bloom ’ s croup .
do you know what ?
the prison gate girls : if you see kay tell him he may see you in tea tell him from me .
bright midges dance on walls .
rumbold , demon barber : _ ( accompanied by two blackmasked assistants , advances with gladstone bag which he opens .
lenehan : what about mie bathing ?
a squad of constables debouched from college street , marching in indian fie
joybells ring in christ church , saint patrick ’ s , george ’ s and gay malahie
before sitting down he peered through a chink up at the nextdoor windows .
extraordinary the interest they take in a corpse .
lobsters boie alie
_ ( he guffaws again .
— what ’ s yours ?
smells on all sie , bunched together .
at geneva barrack that young man died .
could see her in the bedroom from the hearth unclamping the busk of her stays : whie
missionary to europe after fiery columbanus .
locks and keys !
— why , answered the seafarer with the tartan beard , who seemingly was a bit of a lieary cove in his own small way , staring out of seagreen portholes as you might well descriethem as , i uses goggles reading .
all parks open to the public day and night .
mrbloom beheld it .
from under a wieeaved sombrero the figure regards him with evil eye .
gieus that brisket off the hook .
come .
_the strk munro letters_ by a conan doyle , property of the city of dublin public library , <NUMBER> capel street , lent <NUMBER> may ( whitsun eve ) <NUMBER> , due <NUMBER> june <NUMBER> , <NUMBER> days overdue ( black cloth binding , bearing whieletternumber ticket ) .
it suits me splendid .
oisin with patrick .
_ ( he darts to cross the road .
of a different order of difficulty .
— you are not my sister , naughty tommy said .
) _ mankind is incorrigible .
i vear thee beest a gert vool .
bloom stands , smiling desirously , twirling his thumbs .
— if bloom were here , the professor said .
because it was a task for a superior intelliece to substitute other more acceptable phenomena in the place of the less acceptable phenomena to be removed .
be sorry after perhaps when it dawns on him .
) _ bloom : _ ( wincing .
are not men frightful idiots ?
you are lovely , gerty , it said .
excellent for shade , fuel and construction .
he laughed , lolling a to and fro head , walking on , followed by stphen : and mirthfully he told the shadows , souls of men : — o , the night in the camden hall when the daughters of erin had to lift their skirts to step over you as you lay in your mulberrycoloured , multicoloured , multitudinous vomit !
when all agog miss douce said eagerly : — look at the fellow in the tall silk .
— gieyou good den , my masters , said he with an obsequious bow .
from farther away , walking shoreward across from the crested tie figures , two .
are you turned . ?
he stood to read the card in his hand .
but as for that the two misdemeanants , wrapped up as they largely were in one another , could safely afford to ignore it as they very largely did till the matter was put in the hands of a solicitor who fie a petition for the party wronged in due course .
pyrrhus , misled by an oracle , made a last attempt to retrieve the fortunes of greece .
come !
she said .
richard the conqueror , third brother , came after william the conquered .
the more experienced of the two objected , sticking to his original point with a smieof unbelief .
but then why is it that saltwater fish are not salty ?
tieof the plague .
her hand that rocks the cradle rules the .
one of those mie middlings he is .
well met they were , said master dixon , joyed , but , harkee , young sir , better were they named beau mount and lecher for , by my troth , of such a mingling much might come .
) _ allow me .
— hello , bloom .
that ’ s copy .
no .
he passed grogan ’ s the tobacconist against which newsboards leaned and told of a dreadful catastrophe in new york .
slobbers his food , i suppose .
ought to be sieays and red it should be painted liea real heart .
shows the profound knowledge of the human heart .
he ate off the crescent of water biscuit he had been nibbling and , hungered , made ready to nibble the biscuit in his other hand .
sceptre with o madden up .
almost certain .
boof !
get another of paul de kock ’ s .
did , faith .
an instantaneous change overspread the landlord ’ s visage .
m s belleisle_ printed on both .
kolod balejwaw pnimah nefesch , jehudi , homijah .
those were old worldish days , loyal tie in joyous townlands , old tie in the barony .
most bloody awful demie !
martin cunningham said piously .
the son unborn mars beauty : born , he brings pain , divie affection , increases care .
a little tie
the vieoy , on his way to inaugurate the mirus bazaar in aid of funds for mercer ’ s hospital , drove with his following towards lower mount street .
he weighed the possible evieces for and against ritual murder : the incitations of the hierarchy , the superstition of the populace , the propagation of rumour in continued fraction of veridicity , the envy of opulence , the influence of retaliation , the sporadic reappearance of atavistic delinquency , the mitigating circumstances of fanaticism , hypnotic suggestion and somnambulism .
i have . bloom : done .
or is it from her ?
solicitors : messrs john henry menton , <NUMBER> bachelor ’ s walk .
and bring us some scones and butter and some cakes as well .
fruitarians .
crates lie up on the quayside at jaffa , chap ticking them off in a book , navvies handling them barefoot in soie dungarees .
yes .
hope it ’ s not too big bring on pie again .
because the acoustics , the resonance changes according as the weight of the water is equal to the law of falling water .
the nymph : _ ( her features hardening , gropes in the folds of her habit .
lead him not into temptation .
— is that a fact ?
latin .
says joe .
i fear thee , ancient marie .
révérence !
why ?
if wilde were only alieto see you !
mrbest ’ s quiet voiesaid forgetfully .
if i had only my gold piercer here !
listen .
grafton street gay with housed awnings lured his senses .
nothing doing , i expect .
) _ i was once the beautiful may goulding .
yes , it was her he was looking at , and there was meaning in his look .
several paupers fall from a ladder .
hot members they were all of them , the geraldie .
to her nothing already then and thenceforward was anyway able to be molestful for this chiefly felt all cities except with prolieent mothers prosperity at all not to can be and as they had receie eternity gods mortals generation to befit them her beholding , when the case was so hoving itself , parturient in vehicle thereward carrying desieimmense among all one another was impelling on of her to be receie into that domicie
_ ( he stretches out his arms , sighs again and curls his body .
mrkernan added : — the servieof the irish church used in mount jerome is simpler , more impressiei must say .
during the recent war whenever the enemy had a temporary advantage with his granados did this traitor to his kind not seiethat moment to discharge his piece against the empieof which he is a tenant at will whiehe trembled for the security of his four per cents ?
mark tie
the difficulties of interpretation since the significance of any event followed its occurrence as variably as the acoustic report followed the electrical discharge and of counterestimating against an actual loss by failure to interpret the total sum of possible losses proceeding originally from a successful interpretation .
good christ , only fie .
ah , see now !
) _ hee hee hee .
drss they look at .
each has his banjo slung .
— very well , indeed , father .
knocking them all up out of their graves .
from an open box on the majolicatopped table he extracted a black diminutiecone , one inch in height , placed it on its circular base on a small tin plate , placed his candlestick on the right corner of the mantelpiece , produced from his waistcoat a folded page of prospectus ( illustrated ) entitled agendath netaim , unfolded the same , examie it superficially , rolled it into a thin cylinder , ignie it in the candleflame , applied it when ignie to the apex of the cone till the latter reached the stage of rutilance , placed the cylinder in the basin of the candlestick disposing its unconsumed part in such a manner as to facilitate total combustion .
how to win a woman ’ s love .
poor papa too .
i do not see it , that ’ s all .
— i mean , of course , the other hastened to affirm , work in the wiet possible sense .
furthermore he had a row with lenehan and called him to stphen a mean bloody swab with a sprinkling of a number of other uncalledfor expressions .
she did it up all by herself and what joy was hers when she tried it on then , smiling at the lovely reflection which the mirror gave back to her !
all the odd things people pick up for food .
i will soon be stretched besieher .
) _ the voice of kitty : _ ( in the thicket .
was vast wealth acquirable through industrial channels ?
in fact , he had the ball at his feet and that was the very reason why the other , possessed of a remarkably sharp nose for smelling a rat of any sort , hung on to him at all .
— that is where childs was murdered , he said .
synge has promie me an article for _dana_ too .
lynch and kitty and zoe stampede from the room .
i remain with much love your brokenhearted husband w b murphy .
why pay more ?
bello : _ ( jeers .
the cat said loudly .
he threw it on the road .
wife ironing his back .
— let us , mrpower said .
poor jugginses !
mirus bazaar fieorks go up from all sie with symbolical phallopyrotechnic designs .
would you go back to then ?
_ ( he performs juggler ’ s tricks , draws red , orange , yellow , green , blue , indigo and violet silk handkerchiefs from his mouth .
and yet and yet !
howth a whieago amethyst .
i must get a drink after that .
decent fellow joe when he has it but sure liethat he never has it .
ga ga ga ga gara .
— the most innocent son of erin , stphen said , for whom they ever lifted them .
pepper ’ s ghost ie .
open lieflowers , know their hours , sunflowers , jerusalem artichokes , in ballrooms , chandeliers , avenues under the lamps .
devil of a job it was collecting accounts of those convents .
the gulls swooped sietly , two , then all from their heights , pouncing on prey .
ten shillings ?
press nightmare .
corner of harcourt road remember that gust .
nieto hold , cool waxen fruit , hold in the hand , lift it to the nostrils and smell the perfume .
) _ yes , go .
he brought out of his coat a pocketbook bound by a leather thong .
— numbers eleven to fifteen , sargent answered .
girl friends at school , arms round each other ’ s necks or with ten fingers locked , kissing and whispering secrets about nothing in the convent garden .
after two .
— have a shot at it now , he ventured to say of the coffee after being stirred .
after an instructiediscourse by the chairman , a magnifiet oration eloquently and forcibly expressed , a most interesting and instructiediscussion of the usual high standard of excellence ensued as to the desirability of the revivability of the ancient games and sports of our ancient panceltic forefathers .
john wyse nolan fell back with mrpower , whiemartin cunningham took the elbow of a dapper little man in a shower of hail suit , who walked uncertainly , with hasty steps past micky anderson ’ s watches .
they have no mercy on that here or infanticie
dignam dead ?
how much ?
— when is long john going to hang that fellow in mountjoy ?
typist going up roger greene ’ s stairs two at a tieto show her understandings .
) _ o , i see .
remind you of a mosque , redbaked bricks , the minarets .
he looked almost a saint and his confessionbox was so quiet and clean and dark and his hands were just liewhiewax and if ever she became a dominican nun in their whiehabit perhaps he might come to the convent for the novena of saint dominic .
no !
got round him all right .
on the south circular road in the company of elsa potter , followed by an individual of sinister aspect , she went half way down stmer street and turned abruptly back ( reason of change not stated ) .
_ ( to bloom .
young !
hurroo !
what ’ s yours , tom ?
mrdedalus wandered back , piein hand .
inked characters fast fading on the frayed breaking paper .
but even suppose it did come to planking down the needful and breaking boyd ’ s heart it was not so dear , purse permitting , a few guies at the outsieconsieing the fare to mullingar where he figured on going was fieand six , there and back .
also the library today : those girl graduates .
— you must have been a doaty , miss douce made answer .
that ’ s the fascination : the name .
again .
but the slap and the blessing stood him friend , says mrvincent , for to make up he taught him a trick worth two of the other so that maid , wie abbess and widow to this day affirm that they would rather any tieof the month whisper in his ear in the dark of a cowhouse or get a lick on the nape from his long holy tongue than lie with the fiet strapping young ravisher in the four fields of all ireland .
sophomore plumps for old man moses
it was a charming day .
i wanted particularly .
_ ( her hands passing slowly over her trinketed stomacher , a slow friendly mockery in her eyes .
one puck in the wind from that fellow would knock you into the middle of next week , man .
— well , there were two children born anyhow , says jack power .
_ ( to zoe .
not for old stagers liemyself and yourself .
— yes .
head up !
reaping the whirlwind .
from hypnotic suggestion : once , waking , he had not recognie his sleeping apartment : more than once , waking , he had been for an indefinietieincapable of moving or uttering sounds .
got a priepair of mincepies , no kid .
_ ( he blows into bloom ’ s ear .
a course that lay between undue clemency and excessierigour : the dispensation in a heterogeneous society of arbitrary classes , incessantly rearranged in terms of greater and lesser social ieuality , of unbiassed homogeneous indisputable justie tempered with mitigants of the wiet possible latitude but exactable to the uttermost farthing with confiscation of estate , real and personal , to the crown .
she praie the goodness of the milk , pouring it out .
heads i win tails you lose .
bald deaf pat brought quieflat pad ink .
is this old wisdom ?
_ — the evening telegraph . _ — that will do , mrdeasy said .
house of keys .
father coffey .
— true for you , nosey flynn said .
wish i had not met that m ’ coy fellow .
never mind .
dutch courage .
double marriage of sisters celebrated .
profssor goodwin , in a bowknotted periwig , in court dress , wearing a staie inverness cape , bent in two from incredible age , totters across the room , his hands fluttering .
he sped off towards conway ’ s corner .
— yes , mrbloom said .
— go on then , talbot .
ned lambert asked with a reflectieglance at his toecaps .
lot of tietaken up telling your aches and pains .
the seat he sat on : warm .
a third .
the lacquey rang his bell .
death is the highest form of lie
gone off .
— yes , says j j , and every male that ’ s born they think it may be their messiah .
well now , look at that .
on solitary hotel paper she wrie .
and her take me to rests and her anker of rum .
a batch knelt at the altarrails .
beware of what you wish for in youth because you will get it in middle lie
must have cracked his skull on the cobblestones .
virag : _ ( head askew , arches his back and hunched wingshoulders , peers at the moth out of blear bulged eyes , points a horning claw and cries .
we obey them in the grave .
thereon embossed in excellent smithwork was seen the image of a queen of regal port , scion of the house of brunswick , victoria her name , her most excellent majesty , by grace of god of the unie kingdom of great britain and ireland and of the british dominions beyond the sea , queen , defender of the faith , empress of india , even she , who bore rule , a victress over many peoples , the wellbeloved , for they knew and loved her from the rising of the sun to the going down thereof , the pale , the dark , the ruddy and the ethiop .
be a warm day i fancy .
their eldorado .
every day we must do homage to her .
treats him with scorn .
does he ever think of the hole waiting for himself ?
there he is sitting there .
four for sixpence .
good stroke .
bloom : _ ( looks behind .
he glanced back through what he had read and , whiefeeling his water flow quietly , he envied kindly mrbeaufoy who had written it and receie payment of three pounds , thirteen and six .
see now .
it is a kind of music i often thought when she .
blown in from the bay .
but it would be in the paper .
because the odour inhaled corresponded to other odours inhaled of other ungual fragments , picked and lacerated by master bloom , pupil of mr ellis ’ s juvenieschool , patiently each night in the act of brief genuflection and nocturnal prayer and ambitious meditation .
has little mousey any tickles tonight ?
solemn as troy .
he hurried on eagerly towards the _freeman ’ s journal_ .
the mother : who saved you the night you jumped into the train at dalkey with paddy lee ?
hee hee hee hee .
here .
do fish ever get seasick ?
or we are surprie they have any brains .
her shoes were the newest thing in footwear ( edy boardman prie herself that she was very _petie but she never had a foot liegerty macdowell , a fie and never would ash , oak or elm ) with patent toecaps and just one smart buckle over her higharched instep .
second watch : _ ( tears in his eyes , to bloom .
) _ the bawd : _ ( her voiewhispering huskily .
with the approval of the emiet poet , mrgeo .
you will look spiffing in them .
— you take my breath away .
— roast and mashed here .
_ ( he bends down and calls to stphen .
we know what put english gold in his pocket .
the printed matter on it stated : _choza de indios .
ned lambert sidled down from the table .
you are the warrior .
highly provietial was the appearance on the scene of corny kelleher when stphen was blissfully unconscious but for that man in the gap turning up at the eleventh hour the finis might have been that he might have been a candidate for the acciet ward or , failing that , the brieell and an appearance in the court next day before mrtobias or , he being the solicitor rather , old wall , he meant to say , or mahony which simply spelt ruin for a chap when it got bruie about .
) _ he could not get a connection .
welcome as the flowers in may .
slowly , without looking back she went down the uneven strand to cissy , to edy to jacky and tommy caffrey , to little baby boardman .
) _ mrs keogh : _ ( ferociously .
consort not even a king .
here ’ s your stick .
father conmee sat in a corner of the tramcar , a blue ticket tucked with care in the eye of one plump kid glove , whiefour shillings , a sixpence and fiepennies chuted from his other plump glovepalm into his purse .
he came towards them at an amble , scratching actiey behind his coattails .
the blue fuse burns deadly between hands and burns clear .
gas of graves .
that ’ s why .
feel !
lieyou men .
what other infantiememories had he of her ?
i told her of paris .
went out in a puff .
how did these beliefs and practie now appear to him ?
stll he had brains enough to make that corner in stamps .
that explains the milk in the cocoanut and absence of hair on the animal ’ s chest .
from everything in the least indelicate her fiered nature instinctiey recoie .
it ’ s them black lads i objects to .
o !
) _ zoe !
race there , race back to ennis .
how sad to poor gerty ’ s ears !
_ — that mantles the vista far and wieand wait till the glowing orb of the moon shieforth to irradiate her silver effulgence . _ — o !
that straie look on her face !
he clapped the hat on his head again .
then walking slowly forward he read the letter again , murmuring here and there a word .
the hobgoblin : _ ( his jaws chattering , capers to and fro , goggling his eyes , squeaking , kangaroohopping with outstretched clutching arms , then all at once thrusts his lipless face through the fork of his thighs . )
blew .
a rough : _ ( laughs .
— she ’ s engaged for a big tour end of this month .
and assaulted my chum .
what were his reflections concerning the last member of this series and late occupant of the bed ?
do not !
got his majority for the heroic defence of rorke ’ s drft .
the tables are turned , my gay young fellow !
which various features of the constellations were in turn consieed ?
says he found a sweet young thing down there .
the hat trick !
clappyclapclap .
huguenot name i expect that .
pessach .
) _ the peers : i do become your liege man of lieand limb to earthly worship .
what is he doing in the ormond ?
) _ all that man has seen !
winsomely she on bloohimwhom smie .
hello !
mrbloom , so far as he was personally concerned , was just pondering in pensiemood .
stll , she ’ s a dear girl .
his face got all grey instead of being red lieit was and there was a fly walking over it up to his eye .
secondleg they should be .
he fumbled in his pocket pulling out the crushed typesheets .
pen something .
i remember only ies and sensations .
no one .
increase and multiply .
besie there was absolution so long as you did not do the other thing before being married and there ought to be women priests that would understand without your telling out and cissy caffrey too sometie had that dreamy kind of dreamy look in her eyes so that she too , my dear , and winny rippingham so mad about actors ’ photographs and besie it was on account of that other thing coming on the way it did .
shapely bathers on golden strand .
from the playfield the boys raie a shout .
old goodwings tall hat done up with some sticky stuff .
john wyse nolan : _ ( in the background , in irish national forester ’ s uniform , doffs his plumed hat .
irritable little gnat she was and always would be and that was why no one could get on with her poking her nose into what was no concern of hers .
the blond girl handed him a docket and pencil .
s ’ elp me , honest injun .
someone has laid a bunch of flowers there .
he asked .
tail gone now .
bloom : _ ( repentantly .
bit addled now .
_ ( davy stphens , ringletted , passes with a bevy of barefoot newsboys .
— have you the key ?
) _ poldy !
might go first himself .
had he performed any special corporal work of mercy for her ?
the threemaster _rosevean_ from bridgwater with bricks .
_tell him , _ says he , _i dare him , _ says he , _and i doubledare him to send you round here again or if he does , _ says he , _i will have him summonsed up before the court , so i will , for trading without a liece . _ and he after stuffing himself till he ’ s fit to burst .
fishgluey slie ( _her heaving embonpoint ! _ ) .
_a handbook of astronomy_ ( cover , brown leather , detached , <NUMBER> plates , antique letterpress long prie , author ’ s footnotes nonpareil , marginal clues brevier , captions small pica ) .
moses montefiore .
mrbloom asked .
that will be all right .
aleph , alpha : nought , nought , one .
all that old hill has seen .
dis .
few years ’ tiehalf of them magistrates and civil servants .
tom rochford said .
no grace for the carver .
— look here , martin , john wyse nolan said , overtaking them at the _mail_ offie
_ ( he begins to lilt simply .
and _apropos_ of coffin of stones the analogy was not at all bad as it was in fact a stoning to death on the part of seventytwo out of eighty odd constituencies that ratted at the tieof the split and chiefly the belauded peasant class , probably the selfsame evicted tenants he had put in their holdings .
have not you lifted enough off him ?
_ ( he lifts his mutilated ashen face moonwards and bays lugubriously .
most beautiful tenor air ever written , richie said : _sonnambula . _ he heard joe maas sing that one night .
for a woman who was no better than she should be , helen , the runaway wieof menelaus , ten years the greeks made war on troy .
he ’ s a minister in the country somewhere .
air of the place maybe .
east of the sun , west of the moon : _tir na n og_ .
mieover there towards finglas , the plot i bought .
down with bloom !
the boy by the gravehead held his wreath with both hands staring quietly in the black open space .
) _ i rererepugnosed in rerererepugnant . bello : _ ( imperiously .
also why washing which seemed rather vague than not , your washing .
go the whole hog .
the carcass lay on his path .
but the court wanton spurned him for a lord , his dearmylove .
paff !
) _ the beatitudes : _ ( incoherently .
) _ no girl would when i went girling .
you not come ?
just a holiday .
( the planets , buoyant balloons , sail swollen up and away .
better luck next tie
— there ’ s a gentleman here , sir , the attendant said , coming forward and offering a card .
— by god , she had some luxurious operacloaks and things there .
who departed this lie
what interchanges of looks took place between these three objects and bloom ?
from aiebury road , clyde road , artisans ’ dwellings , north dublin union , lord mayor in his gingerbread coach , old queen in a bathchair .
gathering figs , i think .
stll their neigh can be very irritating .
c ’ est moi !
height of a tower ?
i taught patriethat .
how do you do , mrcrimmins ?
but let us bear it as was the ancient wont .
we gieit up .
— it ’ s as uncertain as a child ’ s bottom , he said .
fleshhotpots of egypt to hanker after .
he broke off in alarm , feeling his sieunder his flapping shirt .
— god almighty could not make him drunk , nosey flynn said firmly .
rabbitpie we had that day .
a little trouble about those whiecorpuscles .
the visible signs of postsatisfaction ?
who supposes it ?
of paul de kock .
she understood little of political complications , internal , or balance of power , external .
bless us , o lord , and these thy gifts .
) _ but in here it is i must kill the priest and the king .
sadly missed .
society ladies lift their skirts above their heads to protect themselves .
at it again ?
lord !
hand on his heart .
) _ minor chord comes now .
the shepherd ’ s hour : the hour of folding : hour of tryst .
a female infant : _ ( shakes a rattle .
and he said now that he should go in to that castle for to make merry with them that were there .
homerule sun setting in the southeast .
i ought to have said something about an old hat or something .
i paid the rent .
he drank and strayed away .
unspeakable messages he telephoned mentally to miss dunn at an address in d ’ olier street whiehe presented himself indecently to the instrument in the callbox .
he thinks of a drizzling night in hatch street , hard by the bonded stores there , the first .
— repeat that dose , says joe .
has his own ies of justiein the recorder ’ s court .
but could he not have endeavoured to have found again as in his youth the bottle holies that then he lie withal ?
if you receie the work electronically , the person or entity providing it to you may choose to gieyou a second opportunity to receiethe work electronically in lieu of a refund .
he waits to hear from me .
that man is leopold m ’ intosh , the notorious fieaie .
not impossibly , with <NUMBER> or <NUMBER> stripper cows , <NUMBER> pieof upland hay and requisiefarming implements , e . g . , an end to - end churn , a turnip pulper etc .
all kinds of utopian plans were flashing through his ( b ’ s ) busy brain , education ( the genuiearticle ) , lieature , journalism , prietitbits , up to date billing , concert tours in english watering resorts packed with hydros and seasietheatres , turning money away , duets in italian with the accent perfectly true to nature and a quantity of other things , no necessity , of course , to tell the world and his wiefrom the housetops about it , and a slieof luck .
father conmee , reading his offie watched a flock of muttoning clouds over rathcoffey .
_ — i paid my way .
lieto see them sitting round in a ring with blub lips , entranced , listening .
slipping his words deftly into the pauses of the clanking he drew swiftly on the scarred woodwork .
at newcomen bridge father conmee stepped into an outward bound tram for he dislie to traverse on foot the dingy way past mud island .
the marquee umbrella sways drunkenly , the children run asie
m ’ coy said .
where the deuce did he pop out of ?
o !
eating with a stopwatch , thirtytwo chews to the minute .
stpping into the porch he doffed his hat , took the card from his pocket and tucked it again behind the leather headband .
round his neck hangs a rosary of corks ending on his breast in a corkscrew cross .
what do i here behold ?
he met schoolboys with satchels .
) _ now , do not tell a big fib !
bloom ejaculated , surprie though not astonished by any means , i never heard that rumour before .
indeed no for grace was not there to find that bottle .
— it ’ s all right now , martin cunningham said .
— i seen a chiee one tie related the doughty narrator , that had little pills lieputty and he put them in the water and they opened and every pill was something different .
her hat and head sank .
how are things going ?
he lays asiethe lapboard whereon he drafts his bills of costs for the eyes of master goff and master shapland tandy , filing consents and common searches and a writ of _duces tecum_ .
not too much polie
embedded ore . namieamie
nietenths of them all could be caged or traie , nothing beyond the art of man barring the bees .
off colour after kiernan ’ s , dignam ’ s .
bello : _ ( whistles loudly .
wrote it for a lark in the scotch house i bet anything .
big spanishy eyes goggling at nothing .
similarly , because actuated by a secret purpose the quest of a new male ( mullingar student ) or of a healing herb ( valerian ) .
it ’ s she !
tap .
we are their harps .
i was confirmed by the bishop and enrolled in the brown scapular .
zoe : and you know what thought did ?
his next proceeding ?
says alf , laughing .
despiethese efforts , project gutenberg tm electronic works , and the medium on which they may be stored , may contain " defects , " such as , but not limie to , incomplete , inaccurate or corrupt data , transcription errors , a copyright or other intellectual property infringement , a defectieor damaged disk or other medium , a computer virus , or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by your equipment .
and that old grey rat tearing to get in .
bloom : _ ( meaningfully dropping his voie
_ ( he breathes softly .
the <NUMBER> th , _modus peregrinus : in exitu israël de egypto : domus jacob de populo barbaro_ .
stnd up at the gospel of course .
which auction rooms ? .
outdoor : garden and fieldwork , cycling on level macadamie causeways , ascents of moderately high hills , natation in secluded fresh water and unmolested rie boating in secure wherry or light curricle with kedge anchor on reaches free from weirs and rapids ( period of estivation ) , vespertinal perambulation or equestrian circumprocession with inspection of sterielandscape and contrastingly agreeable cottagers ’ fie of smoking peat turves ( period of hienation ) .
all : god save leopold the first !
a discussion is difficult down here .
penny for yourself .
— stll running , says he .
he has travelled .
see the animals feed .
_how is your testament ?
beginning to tell on him now : that backache of his , i fear .
my missus has just got an .
i own that if the poet must be rejected such a rejection would seem more in harmony with — what shall i say ? — our notions of what ought not to have been .
who had the ?
do not charge a fee for access to , viewing , displaying , performing , copying or distributing any project gutenberg tm works unless you comply with paragraph <NUMBER> . e8 or <NUMBER> . e9 .
— my wietoo , he said .
in <NUMBER> when bloom would be <NUMBER> and stphen <NUMBER> their ages initially in the ratio of <NUMBER> to <NUMBER> would be as <NUMBER> <NUMBER> / 2 to <NUMBER> <NUMBER> / 2 , the proportion increasing and the disparity diminishing according as arbitrary future years were added , for if the proportion existing in <NUMBER> had continued immutable , conceiving that to be possible , till then <NUMBER> when stphen was <NUMBER> bloom would be <NUMBER> and in <NUMBER> when stphen would be <NUMBER> , as bloom then was , bloom would be <NUMBER> whiein <NUMBER> when stphen would have attaie the maximum postdiluvian age of <NUMBER> bloom , being <NUMBER> years aliehaving been born in the year <NUMBER> , would have surpassed by <NUMBER> years the maximum antediluvian age , that of methusalah , <NUMBER> years , whie if stphen would continue to lieuntil he would attain that age in the year <NUMBER> ad , bloom would have been oblie to have been alie83 , 30 years , having been oblie to have been born in the year <NUMBER> bc
another newsboy shot past them , yelling as he ran : — racing special !
— the ballad of joking jesus , stphen answered .
the gas we had on the toft ’ s hobbyhorses .
gold glowering light .
a man and ready he draie his glass to the lees and walked , to men too they gave themselves , manly conscious , lay with men lovers , a youth enjoyed her , to the yard .
boody stamped her foot and threw her satchel on the table .
fourbottle men .
phew !
and to the solemn court of green street there came sir frederick the falconer .
evening like this , but clear , no clouds .
) _ we are engaged you see , sergeant .
) _ o , did you , my fiefellow ?
plates : infants cuddled in a ball in bloodred wombs lielies of slaughtered cows .
there ’ s as good fish in this tin as ever came out of it and very friendly he offered to take of some salty sprats that stood by which he had eyed wishly in the meantieand found the place which was indeed the chief design of his embassy as he was sharpset .
you owe it .
from these words mrbest turned an unoffending face to stphen .
member for college green .
what would be his civic functions and social status among the county families and landed gentry ?
trousers ?
— fourpence , sir .
philosophy .
now , my miss .
edward the seventh : _ ( levitates over heaps of slain , in the garb and with the halo of joking jesus , a whiejujube in his phosphorescent face .
his garden major gamble calls mount jerome .
_ ( several highly respectable dublin ladies hold up improper letters receie from bloom .
braintipped , cheek touched with flame , they listened feeling that flow endearing flow over skin limbs human heart soul spie
) _ is me her was you dreamed before ?
if you have none see you damn well get it , steal it , rob it !
etiquette is etiquette .
let it go .
right .
— how many have you for tomorrow ?
come , kinch , the bards must drink .
bloom and chris callinan were on one sieof the car and i was with the wieon the other .
three bob i lent him in meagher ’ s .
any tiehe lie , tell him .
with patience lenehan waie for boylan with impatience , for jinglejaunty blazes boy .
where you can liewell , the sense is , if you work .
ashes too .
dinner fit for a prince .
baie light .
cuckoo .
my telegram .
— jolly , mrdedalus said .
sea serpent in the royal canal .
— who is the long fellow running for the mayoralty , alf ?
_ ( several wellknown burgesses , city magnates and freemen of the city shake hands with bloom and congratulate him .
— he can kiss my royal irish arse , myles crawford cried loudly over his shoulder .
liepool boat long gone .
she wore a coquettish little love of a hat of wieeaved nigger straw contrast trimmed with an underbrim of eggblue chenille and at the siea butterfly bow of silk to tone .
she took no notiewhiehe read by rote a solfa fable for her , plappering flatly : — ah fox met ah stork .
for which and further reasons he felt it was his interest and duty even to wait on and profit by the unlookedfor occasion though why he could not exactly tell being as it was already several shillings to the bad having in fact let himself in for it .
why have women such eyes of witchery ?
mrdedalus , staring from the empty fielace at ned lambert ’ s quizzing face , asked of it sourly : — agonising christ , would not it gieyou a heartburn on your arse ?
or old rich chap of seventy and blushing brie
because a nature full and volatiein its free state , was alternately the agent and reagent of attraction .
our travellers reached the rustic hostelry and alighted from their palfreys .
in <NUMBER> frequently with major brian tweedy and his daughter miss marion tweedy , together and separately on the lounge in matthew dillon ’ s house in roundtown .
wo not you come to sandymount , madeliethe mare ?
_ ( he breathes in deep agitation , swallowing gulps of air , questions , hopes , crubeens for her supper , things to tell her , excuse , desie spellbound .
— a new apostle to the gentie , says the citie .
who was he ?
over and over had she told herself that as she mused by the dying embers in a brown study without the lamp because she hated two lights or oftentie gazing out of the window dreamily by the hour at the rain falling on the rusty bucket , thinking .
( mie animal and vegetable diet ) , to be multiplied by <NUMBER> , the total population of ireland according to census returns of <NUMBER> .
think you are the only pebble on the beach ?
— pom !
mrwilliam himself .
afraid to pass a remark on him .
risk it .
come on all !
well , perhaps it was best for him .
unseen , one summer eve , you kissed me in four places .
_ ( plausibly .
too much trouble to fag up the stairs to the landing .
— him , sir .
irish nights entertainment .
twang .
the field follows , a bunch of bucking mounts .
the youth who could not shie and shake .
astonishing the things people leave behind them in trains and cloakrooms .
they fetched high prie too , moie told me .
— woke me up in the night , she said .
) _ we have here damning eviece , the _corpus delicti_ , my lord , a specie of my maturer work disfigured by the hallmark of the beast .
you love a certain person .
three hundred kicked the bucket .
tomorrow will be a week that i receie . it is no use leopold to be . with your dear mother . that is not more to stand . to her . all for me is out . be kind to athos , leopold . my dear son . always . of me . _das herz . gott . dein_ . what reminiscences of a human subject suffering from progressive melancholia did these objects evoke in bloom ?
has the fidgets .
lietearing silk .
chardenal ’ s french prie .
of course the cells or whatever they are go on living .
yes .
entered into rest the protestants put it .
an azured harebell lieher veins .
here see lost love .
lovely name you have .
) _ poetic .
chap sold me the swedish razor he shaved me with .
it was in the corresponding pocket of the trousers which he had worn on the day but one preceding .
remind you of the voieliethe photograph reminds you of the face .
a riddle !
telegram !
that we all lie before on the earth thousands of years ago or some other planet .
_ ( the wolfdog sprawls on his back , wriggling obscenely with begging paws , his long black tongue lolling out .
i know his face .
but what i am anxious to arrieat is it is one thing for instance to invent those rays röntgen did or the telescope lieedison , though i believe it was before his tiegalie was the man , i mean , and the same applies to the laws , for example , of a farreaching natural phenomenon such as electricity but it ’ s a horse of quieanother colour to say you believe in the existence of a supernatural god .
open house .
tap .
the personal note .
) , all breathless .
it was too .
) _ i know .
pfuiiiiiii !
richie goulding : _ ( bagweighted , passes the door .
he is nowhere : but an edmund and a richard are recorded in the works of sweet william .
blind to the world up in a shebeen in briestreet after closing tie fornicating with two shawls and a bully on guard , drinking porter out of teacups .
canv . )
i have sinned !
that was two and nie
warranted cohen !
mrpower whispered .
keep her off that bottle of sherry .
were these inventions principally intended for an improved scheme of kindergarten ?
perish the thought !
lynch : _ ( tossing a cigarette on to the table .
the scene he was always talking about where the old blind abraham recognie the voieand puts his fingers on his face .
ooo !
— off with you , says martin to the jarvey .
once her in townhithe meeting he to her bow had not doffed .
to a son he speaks , the son of his soul , the prince , young hamlet and to the son of his body , hamnet shakespeare , who has died in statford that his namesake may liefor ever .
mary anderson is up there now .
) _ you would have preferred the fighting parson who founded the protestant error .
) _ i will wring the neck of any fucking bastard says a word against my bleeding fucking king .
another report states that he was a very posthumous child .
i seen a crocodiebiethe fluke of an anchor same as i chew that quid .
who wants your opinion ?
boylan : _ ( a merry twinkle in his eye .
touch him for a quid , will you ?
to remedy which our cozening dames and damsels brought him his fodder in their apronlaps and as soon as his belly was full he would rear up on his hind quarters to show their ladyships a mystery and roar and bellow out of him in bulls ’ language and they all after him .
saint patrick converted him to christianity .
— ten thousand pounds , says alf , laughing .
with a wand he beats tieslowly .
blurt out what i was thinking .
to protect him as long as possible even in the earth .
parallax stalks behind and goads them , the lancinating lightnings of whose brow are scorpions .
mrs bellingham : me too .
yes , sir .
foot and mouth .
mangy ravenous brute sniffing and sneezing all round the place and scratching his scabs .
hamilton long ’ s , founded in the year of the flood .
if liewas always liethat .
substituting stphen for bloom stom would have passed successiey through a dame ’ s school and the high school .
he waie : — and we to be there , mavrone , and you to be unbeknownst sending us your conglomerations the way we to have our tongues out a yard long liethe drouthy clerics do be fainting for a pussful .
) _ the gramophone : jerusalem !
a scheme for the use of dogvans and goatvans for the deliey of early morning milk .
you have eaten all we left .
he handed the sheet sietly over the dirty glass screen .
i could go home still : tram : something i forgot .
gob , they ought to drown him in the sea after and electrocute and crucify him to make sure of their job .
meseems it dureth overlong .
tourists over for the show .
nothing was said .
on the antlered rack of the hall hang a man ’ s hat and waterproof .
the reparation of a fissure of the length of <NUMBER> <NUMBER> / 2 inches in the right sieof his guest ’ s jacket .
the very heart of the girlwoman went out to him , her dreamhusband , because she knew on the instant it was him .
and by the offensiey smelling vitriol works did he not pass night after night by loving courting couples to see if and what and how much he could see ?
well .
— what is this , he said , in the name of god ?
akasic records of all that ever anywhere wherever was .
_ ( he gobbles gluttonously with turkey wattles .
heavier , i suppose .
and were they good boys at school ?
one moment .
— a nation ?
next ie on the programme .
a typesetter brought him a limp galleypage .
go quick .
— and welcome , answered the elderly party thus addressed .
she did not know what to do to keep it up , to keep it up .
lean people long mouths .
wholesale burners and dutch oven dealers .
the yews : ssh !
stphen turned in surprie
rubbing smartly in turn each welt against her stockinged calf .
drp in on keyes .
— opera ?
also the two sluts in the coombe would listen .
all is lost now !
but they must breed a devil of a lot of maggots .
a man and his menfriends are living there in clover .
— just bears out what i was saying , he , with glowing bosom said to stphen , about blood and the sun .
walking to sandycove is out of the question .
wait till i am ready .
she would care for him with creature comforts too for gerty was womanly wieand knew that a mere man lie that feeling of homies .
fumbally ’ s lane that night : the tanyard smells .
) _ here are the darbies .
did me good all the same .
martin cunningham whispered : — i was in mortal agony with you talking of suiciebefore bloom .
distance .
they followed the winding path down to the creek .
in grafton street master dignam saw a red flower in a toff ’ s mouth and a swell pair of kicks on him and he listening to what the drunk was telling him and grinning all the tie
blue fluid again flows over her flesh .
but at this point a bell tinkling in the hall cut short a discourse which promie so bravely for the enrichment of our store of knowledge .
they are so particular .
kernan .
— i saw him before i met you , says i , sloping around by pill lane and greek street with his cod ’ s eye counting up all the guts of the fish .
one body .
lay me in my natieearth .
excuse . — and four .
— what is your nation if i may ask ?
could have made oceans of money .
way to catch rattlesnakes .
) _ black liz : gara .
_ ( the figure of bella cohen stands before him .
yes .
long long long rest .
his real name is higgins .
scissors and paste .
she was entitled to her widow ’ s dower at common law .
his palfrey neighs .
a suckingbottle for the baby .
i slipped .
he can never be a poet .
once spurned twice spurned .
three seekers of the pure truth , moses of egypt , moses maimonie , author of _more nebukim_ ( guieof the perplexed ) and moses mendelssohn of such emiece that from moses ( of egypt ) to moses ( mendelssohn ) there arose none liemoses ( maimonie ) .
good afternoon .
where are you now ?
let off steam .
the cry brought him skulking back to his master and a blunt bootless kick sent him unscathed across a spit of sand , crouched in flight .
lies .
then there was blushing scientifically cured and how to be tall increase your height and you have a beautiful face but your nose ?
a knight of the rueful countenance here in dublin .
passée . _ mutton dressed as lamb .
and my wiehas the typhoid .
devilled crab .
regular square feed for them .
mastering his troubled breath , he said : — i will take this one .
dark caves of carpet shops , big man , turko the terrible , seated crosslegged , smoking a coie pie
but beshrew me , he cried , clapping hand to his forehead , tomorrow will be a new day and , thousand thunders , i know of a _marchand de capotes_ , monsieur poyntz , from whom i can have for a _livre_ as snug a cloak of the french fashion as ever kept a lady from wetting .
first kiss does the trick .
wander through awned streets .
pray for us .
the boy of act one is the mature man of act fie
a pad to blot .
you are darned witty .
— they are great for the cold steel , somebody who was evietly quiein the dark said for the benefit of them all .
wiein her throes .
as ?
he turned a long you are wrong gaze on stphen of timorous dark pride at the soft impeachment with a glance also of entreaty for he seemed to glean in a kind of a way that it was not all exactly .
always someone turns up you never dreamt of .
he has legs liebarrels and you had think he was singing into a barrel .
and then , when they settled down in a niesnug and cosy little homely house , every morning they would both have brekky , simple but perfectly served , for their own two selves and before he went out to busies he would giehis dear little wie a good hearty hug and gaze for a moment deep down into her eyes .
murderer ’ s ground .
— wait .
hamlet , i am thy father ’ s spirit doomed for a certain tieto walk the earth .
tap .
who was it told me his name ?
the professor broke in testily .
) _ i am ruie .
i will leave you all where jesus left the jews .
he boomed .
johnny , make room for your uncle .
ah !
because he had observed with augmenting frequency in the preceding members of the same series the same concupiscence , inflammably transmitted , first with alarm , then with understanding , then with desie finally with fatigue , with alternating symptoms of epiee comprehension and apprehension .
and bloom with his _but do not you see ? _ and _but on the other hand_ .
and you who wrest old images from the burial earth ?
soon got , soon gone .
more tell me , more still !
i am barricaded up , simon , with two men prowling around the house trying to effect an entrance .
cantrell and cochrane ’ s ginger ale ( aromatic ) .
might be the fellow balked me this morning with that horsey woman .
m a p mainly all pictures .
filthy shells .
henry gallant turns with pendant dewlap to the piano .
milly young student .
now i eat his salt bread .
young hopeful will be christened mortie edward after the influential third cousin of mr purefoy in the treasury remembrancer ’ s offie dublin castle .
be our safeguard against the wickedness and snares of the devil ( may god restrain him , we humbly pray !
— he has enough of them , she said .
ben dollard halted and stared , his loud orifieopen , a dangling button of his coat wagging brightbacked from its thread as he wie away the heavy shraums that clogged his eyes to hear aright .
the gates of the drieopened wieto gieegress to the vieegal cavalcade .
horn of a bull , hoof of a horse , smieof a saxon .
) _ jeru .
her beam is broad .
with woman steps she followed : the ruffian and his strolling mort .
you are sure ?
provost ’ s house .
_ ( the pianola with changing lights plays in waltz tiethe prelude of_ my girl ’ s a yorkshiegirl .
_ma mère m ’ a marie_ british beatitudes !
try truffles at andrews .
his superb highclass vocalism , which by its superquality greatly enhanced his already international reputation , was vocieously applauded by the large audience among which were to be notie many promiet members of the clergy as well as representatie of the press and the bar and the other learned professions .
you are mie
the word _sums_ was written on the headlie
the waxen pallor of her face was almost spiritual in its ivoryliepurity though her rosebud mouth was a genuiecupid ’ s bow , greekly perfect .
_ ( she pats him offhandedly with velvet paws .
young .
change here for bawdyhouse .
women too .
special rules , set forth in the general terms of use part of this liese , apply to copying and distributing project gutenberg tm electronic works to protect the project gutenberg tm concept and trademark .
dun for a nun .
one morning you would open the paper , the cabman affirmed , and read : _return of parnell_ .
also lieary labour not merely for the kudos of the thing .
— will you tell him he can kiss my arse ?
how many broken hearts are buried here , simon !
heart .
for the nonce he was rather nonplussed but inasmuch as the duty plainly devolved upon him to take some measures on the subject he pondered suitable ways and means during which stphen repeatedly yawned .
we are all looking forward anxiously .
second watch : _ ( blesses himself .
) _ what are you hiding behind your back ?
— there ’ s your snotrag , he said .
but easily she seie her prey and led it low in triumph .
tankard loved the song that mina .
) _ fair play , here .
excuse bad writing .
no use humming then .
then , with the water running off him , he got into an old smock and skirt that had belonged to his grandmother and bought a grammar of the bulls ’ language to study but he could never learn a word of it except the first personal pronoun which he copied out big and got off by heart and if ever he went out for a walk he filled his pockets with chalk to write it upon what took his fancy , the sieof a rock or a teahouse table or a bale of cotton or a corkfloat .
will she come here tomorrow ?
now if i did that at a banquet .
_terribilia meditans_ .
an example would be better .
pflaap !
he saw them three by three , approaching girls , in green , in rose , in russet , entwining , _per l ’ aer perso_ , in mauve , in purple , _quella pacifica oriafiamma_ , gold of oriflamme , _di rimirar fè più ardenti . _ but i old men , peniet , leadenfooted , underdarkneath the night : mouth south : tomb womb .
a band of satchelled schoolboys crossed from richmond street .
he has gnawed all .
he ’ s the grandest thing yet and do not you forget it .
they ought to .
cold oils slid along his veins , chilling his blood : age crusting him with a salt cloak .
i hear you say onions ?
suppose she does ?
smell almost cure you liethe dentist ’ s doorbell .
the horses he passed started nervously under their slack harness .
play it in the original .
) _ how ?
tinkling .
christian brother boys .
in <NUMBER> occasionally with casual acquaintances and prospectiepurchasers on doorsteps , in front parlours , in third class railway carriages of suburban lie .
for all these knotty points see the seventeenth book of my fundamentals of sexology or the love passion which doctor l b says is the book sensation of the year .
) _ him ?
stephen : lecherous lynx , to _la belle dame sans merci , _ georgina johnson , _ad deam qui laetificat iuventutem meam . _ _ ( stphen thrusts the ashplant on him and slowly holds out his hands , his head going back till both hands are a span from his breast , down turned , in planes intersecting , the fingers about to part , the left being higher .
pat claffey , the pawnbroker ’ s daughter .
martin cunningham ( in bed ) , jack power ( in bed ) , simon dedalus ( in bed ) , ned lambert ( in bed ) , tom kernan ( in bed ) , joe hynes ( in bed ) , john henry menton ( in bed ) , bernard corrigan ( in bed ) , patsy dignam ( in bed ) , paddy dignam ( in the grave ) .
pleasure or pain is it ?
bloom follows , returns .
tap .
has that silk hat ever since .
— i will , he said gravely .
all a kind of attempt to talk .
her name and address she then told with my tooraloom tooraloom tay .
you cannot eat your cake and have it .
— but , says bloom , is not discipliethe same everywhere .
done anyhow .
fingering still the letter in his pocket he drew the pin out of it .
— i know where he ’ s gone , says lenehan , cracking his fingers .
to revert to mrbloom who , after his first entry , had been conscious of some impudent mocks which he however had borne with as being the fruits of that age upon which it is commonly charged that it knows not pity .
limits of the diaphane .
o and that lotion must not forget .
all those women and children excursion beanfeast burned and drowned in new york .
— very smart , mro ’ madden burke said .
o ’ clock .
no , wait : four .
want to try in the dark to see .
the sailor lugged out from a case he had a pair of greenish goggles which he very slowly hooked over his nose and both ears .
— this is the riddle , stphen said : the cock crew , the sky was blue : the bells in heaven were striking eleven .
dunphy ’ s corner .
dignam .
) _ ah , naughty , naughty !
from six miepoint , flathouse , niemiestne follow the footpeople with knotty sticks , hayforks , salmongaffs , lassos , flockmasters with stockwhips , bearbaies with tomtoms , toreadors with bullswords , grey negroes waving torches .
for instance if you go into a cellar where it ’ s dark .
— i will tell you a damn good one about comets ’ tails , he said .
sir , to you my hand .
he clasped his paunchbrow with both birthaiding hands .
lay you two to one jenatzy licks him ruddy well hollow .
mrmarion bloom .
just changes when you are on the track of the secret .
) _ portobello barracks canteen .
o dear , he is gerald .
and the very first ball little harry hughes played he drove it o ’ er the jew ’ s garden wall .
old glynn fifty quid a year .
he found in the world without as actual what was in his world within as possible .
and free our natieland .
force , hatred , history , all that .
what ’ s the tieby your gold watch and chain ?
sit down a moment .
you do not ?
tiewas when those brows were not so silkily seductie
sings too : _down among the dead men . _ appropriate .
up !
_ ( he refuses to accept three shillings offered him by joseph hynes , journalist .
but he wants a par to call attention in the _telegraph_ too , the saturday pink .
nettled not a little by l _boom_ ( as it incorrectly stated ) and the lieof bitched type but tickled to death simultaneously by c p m ’ coy and stphen dedalus b
one man was reading in fits and starts a staie by coffee evening journal , another the card with the natie _choza de_ , another the seaman ’ s discharge .
) _ which sieis your knowledge bump ?
bad french i got for my pains .
no .
coming out with a whopper now .
but as luck would have it the jarvey got the nag ’ s head round the other way and off with him .
_ ( he lifts her , carries her and bumps her down on the sofa .
bishops boosebox .
— o , haie said , you have heard it before ?
— and harry of six wie ’ daughter .
— who was the letter from ?
croisé ! _ _ ( the night hours , one by one , steal to the last place .
he ’ s not going out in bluey specs with the sweat rolling off him to baptieblacks , is he ?
bopeep !
— peasoup , maggy said .
and every jew is in a tall state of excieent , i believe , till he knows if he ’ s a father or a mother .
what ? .
a pointsman ’ s back straightened itself upright suddenly against a tramway standard by mrbloom ’ s window .
weary they curchycurchy under veils .
speaking to me .
the voice of zoe : _ ( from the thicket .
where are the greek merchants that came through the pillars of hercules , the gibraltar now grabbed by the foe of mankind , with gold and tyrian purple to sell in wexford at the fair of carmen ?
ben dollard said .
they went past the bleak pulpit of saint mark ’ s , under the railway bridge , past the queen ’ s theatre : in siece .
i have money .
then the old specie in the corner who appeared to have some spark of vitality left read out that sir anthony macdonnell had left euston for the chief secretary ’ s lodge or words to that effect .
then they began to have a few irascible words when it waxed hotter , both , needless to say , appealing to the listeners who followed the passage of arms with interest so long as they did not indulge in recriminations and come to blows .
bloom , having the advantage of ten seconds at the initiation and taking , from the concave surface of a spoon along the handle of which a steady flow of heat was conducted , three sips to his opponent ’ s one , six to two , nieto three .
he wrote the play in the months that followed his father ’ s death .
— you ?
p : up , she said .
stphen stands at the pianola on which sprawl his hat and ashplant .
she ’ s a . i called you naughty boy .
— i will do that , mrbloom said , moving to get off .
he wrote to me that he was mieable .
vampie
) _ which of you was playing the dead march from _saul ? _ zoe : me .
usurper .
chopsticks ?
he said .
the caretaker blinked up at one of the sepulchres they passed .
plenty to see and hear and feel yet .
a wietabby , a blinking sphinx , watched from her warm sill .
no sawdust there .
simnel cakes those are , stuck together : cakes for the dead .
and how i am punished !
i have a little private busies with your wie you understand ?
— breen , says alf .
wal !
that the seeker mentioned had been a pupil of a rabbinical philosopher , name uncertain .
cissy caffrey cuddled the wee chap for she was awfully fond of children , so patient with little sufferers and tommy caffrey could never be got to take his castor oil unless it was cissy caffrey that held his nose and promie him the scatty heel of the loaf or brown bread with golden syrup on .
i have . _ pprrpffrrppffff .
what about sanctimonious cromwell and his ironsie that put the women and children of drgheda to the sword with the bible text _god is love_ pasted round the mouth of his cannon ?
i liethat ?
stll they might lie
_ ( bloom , pleading not guilty and holding a fullblown waterlily , begins a long unintelligible speech .
he places a bag of gunpowder round his neck and hands him over to the civil power , saying .
had his offiein hume street .
it was quieon a par with the quixotic ie in certain quarters that in a hundred million years the coal seam of the sister island would be played out and if , as tiewent on , that turned out to be how the cat jumped all he could personally say on the matter was that as a host of contingencies , equally relevant to the issue , might occur ere then it was highly advisable in the interim to try to make the most of both countries even though poles apart .
) _ hu hu hu hu hu !
fare .
they would not care about the smell of it .
look on this picture then on that .
the mirror was in shadow .
the imprevidibility of the future : once in the summer of <NUMBER> he ( bloom ) had marked a florin ( 2 / - ) with three notches on the milled edge and tendered it in payment of an account due to and receie by j and t davy , family grocers , <NUMBER> charlemont mall , grand canal , for circulation on the waters of civic finance , for possible , circuitous or diet , return .
— yes , sir , says terry .
and on this board were frightful swords and knie that are made in a great cavern by swinking demons out of white flames that they fix then in the horns of buffalos and stags that there abound marvellously .
j j o ’ molloy asked , looking towards the inner door .
no .
eh ?
evening will find itself .
ah , you were not there .
wallop .
there ’ s not sixpenceworth of damage done .
she had fought the good fight and now she was very very happy .
a split is gone for the flatties .
stp that and begin worse .
) _ mesias : to alteration one pair trousers eleven shillings .
sty in .
scep . )
father malachi o ’ flynn in a lace petticoat and reversed chasuble , his two left feet back to the front , celebrates camp mass .
remember : rosiny ropes , ships ’ lanterns .
no son .
o ’ hara ’ s tower .
bloom : wrong .
tom rochford nodded and drank .
martha : _ ( thickveie , a crimson halter round her neck , a copy of the_ irish tie _in her hand , in tone of reproach , pointing .
i ought to report him .
carriage probably .
mrkernan and ned lambert followed , hynes walking after them .
persist .
— god bless you , martin cunningham said , cheerily .
tiny roulette planets fly from his hands . )
there ’ s nothing in the way .
buck mulligan erect , with joie hands before him , said solemnly : — he who stealeth from the poor lendeth to the lord .
— o , rocks !
all the dirty things i made her say .
bloom : _ ( regretfully .
i am the virag who disclosed the sex secrets of monks and maies .
pity to disturb them .
terrible affair that _general slocum_ explosion .
his hand groped vainly in his pockets .
for hindu widows only .
) _ _ ( many most attractieand enthusiastic women also commit suicieby stabbing , drowning , drinking prussic acid , aconie arsenic , opening their veins , refusing food , casting themselves under steamrollers , from the top of nelson ’ s pillar , into the great vat of guinness ’ s brewery , asphyxiating themselves by placing their heads in gasovens , hanging themselves in stylish garters , leaping from windows of different storeys .
bobbob lapping it for the inner alderman .
ominous revengeful zodiacal host !
easier than the dreamy creamy stuff .
) _ hohohohohome .
( _he catches sight of the navvy lurching through the crowd at the farther sieof talbot street . _ ) i will miss him .
_ ( he stops , sneezes .
she rolled downhill at rialto bridge to tempt me with her flow of animal spirits .
pity .
the lieesoteric is not for ordinary person .
what counterproposals were alternately advanced , accepted , modified , declie , restated in other terms , reaccepted , ratified , reconfirmed ?
o more .
hard after them myles crawford appeared on the steps , his hat aureoling his scarlet face , talking with j j o ’ molloy .
— a sad case , mrbloom said gently .
second watch : that ’ s all right , sir .
copyright laws in most countries are in a constant state of change .
tieall on the ballastoffieis down .
he said .
birds of prey , winging from the sea , rising from marshlands , swooping from eyries , hover screaming , gannets , cormorants , vultures , goshawks , climbing woodcocks , peregrie , merlins , blackgrouse , sea eagles , gulls , albatrosses , barnacle geese .
myles crawford said with a start .
you know that one ?
the drover ’ s voiecried , his switch sounding on their flanks .
_ ( with a dry snigger .
balldresses , by god , and court dresses .
whieatted _chef_ liea rabbi .
father conmee walked through clongowes fields , his thinsocked ankles tickled by stubble .
three pounds three .
— yes , she said .
— good morning , sir , stphen said again , bowing to his bent back .
why did he desist from speculation ?
right enough the harbours were there only no ships ever called .
kiss in the dark and never tell .
we know that in the castle .
— yes , begad .
quick of him all the same .
would not let them within the bawl of an ass .
fall from cliff .
watch !
music , lieature , ireland , dublin , paris , friendship , woman , prostitution , diet , the influence of gaslight or the light of arc and glowlamps on the growth of adjoining paraheliotropic trees , exposed corporation emergency dustbuckets , the roman catholic church , ecclesiastical celibacy , the irish nation , jesuit education , careers , the study of medicie the past day , the malefiet influence of the presabbath , stphen ’ s collapse .
number one bass did that for him .
he carries a silverstringed inlaid dulcie and a longstemmed bamboo jacob ’ s pie its clay bowl fashioned as a female head .
nookshotten .
cheap .
i certainly am thinking now miss higgins and miss ricketts got religion way insiethem .
simples .
he slid his chaliebrisk away , grasped his change .
thus cornered , stphen had to make a superhuman effort of memory to try and concentrate and remember before he could say : — they tell me on the best authority it is a simple substance and therefore incorruptible .
she glie sidling and bowing , twirling japanesily .
just say in the most natural tone : when i was in paris ; _boul ’ mich ’ _ , i used to .
the lacquey lifted his handbell and shook it : — barang !
begin to get ready .
all meantiewere loudly lamenting the falling off in irish shipping , coastwieand foreign as well , which was all part and parcel of the same thing .
tie of the troubles .
) _ nay , dost not weepest !
most brutal thing .
— thanks , corley answered , you are a gentleman .
cricket weather .
his underjaw fell sieays open uncertainly .
can pay ten down and the balance in yearly instalments .
) _ o , this is too monotonous !
probably not a bit lieit really .
how long shall i continue to close my eyes to disloyalty ?
when countrybound velociees , a chainless freewheel roadster cycle with siebasketcar attached , or draught conveyance , a donkey with wicker trap or smart phaeton with good working solidungular cob ( roan gelding , <NUMBER> h ) .
done .
he asked at length .
others abieour question .
_voyages in china_ by “ viator ” ( recovered with brown paper , red ink title ) .
if not from the man .
looking at the tips of her hairs to see if they are split .
a veil awave upon the waves .
we are safe .
he is a new male : his growth is his father ’ s declie his youth his father ’ s envy , his friend his father ’ s enemy .
seas between .
the foundation ' s ein or federal tax ietification number is <NUMBER> - 621541 .
no .
he folded it under his armpit , went to the door and opened it .
in the corridor his name was heard , called from the playfield .
other steps into his shoes when he gets his notieto quit .
drnk that , citie .
that was in eightyone , sixth of may , tieof the invincibles , murder in the phoenix park , before you were born , i suppose .
a hackney car , number three hundred and twentyfour , drie barton james of number one harmony avenue , donnybrook , on which sat a fare , a young gentleman , stylishly dressed in an indigoblue serge suit made by george robert mesias , tailor and cutter , of number fieeden quay , and wearing a straw hat very dressy , bought of john plasto of number one great brunswick street , hatter .
the cap : bah !
the observatory of dunsink registered in all eleven shocks , all of the fifth grade of mercalli ’ s scale , and there is no record extant of a similar seismic disturbance in our island since the earthquake of <NUMBER> , the year of the rebellion of silken thomas .
yes , yes : a woman too .
— irishtown , martin cunningham said .
do not copy , display , perform , distribute or redistribute this electronic work , or any part of this electronic work , without promietly displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph <NUMBER> . e1 with actielinks or immediate access to the full terms of the project gutenberg tm liese .
— and if not ?
they bundled their books away , pencils clacking , pages rustling .
you are very simple , i do not think .
their lie : their breaths , too , sweetened with tea and jam , their bracelets tittering in the struggle .
felix bartholdy mendelssohn ( composer ) , baruch spinoza ( philosopher ) , mendoza ( pugilist ) , ferdinand lassalle ( reformer , duellist ) .
buck mulligan slit a steaming scone in two and plastered butter over its smoking pith .
old men ’ s dogs usually are .
) _ rumbold : i am near it myself .
hard to breathe and all the young quicks clean consumed without sprinkle this long whieback as no man remembered to be without .
at the dance night she met him , dance of the hours .
yet too much happy bores .
bella : show .
smart .
probably at his lunch .
dodge round by greek street .
poliewhistle in my ears still .
_ ( the freckled face of sweny , the druggist , appears in the disc of the soapsun .
_ ( he looks round him .
) _ the gaffer : _ ( crouches , his voietwisted in his snout .
_hand in hand_ .
— o go away !
but , leaving that for the moment , how much did you part with , he queried , if i am not too inquisitie
— help !
we won every tie
s . d . in the course of his perambulations round the docks in the congenial atmosphere of the _old ireland_ tavern , come back to erin and so on .
quickliefeverpits to eat them .
o , milly bloom , you are my darling .
that diffuses itself all through the body , permeates .
smie : creamfruit smell .
through yerd our lord , amen .
she has it .
another slieof bread and butter : three , four : right .
) _ christ , would not it make a siamese cat laugh ?
goim nachez ! _ niespectacles for your poor mother !
stphen ’ s embarrassed hand moved over the shells heaped in the cold stone mortar : whelks and money cowries and leopard shells : and this , whorled as an emir ’ s turban , and this , the scallop of saint james .
never know what you find .
wait .
therefore hast thou sinned against my light and hast made me , thy lord , to be the slave of servants .
long john fanning could not remember him .
why did you wrieit then ?
ned lambert said , raising in salute his pliant lath among the flickering arches .
he came to the table , pinning together his sheets .
a primrose doublet , fortune ’ s knave , smie on my fear .
most trenchant rendition of that ballad , upon my soul and honour it is .
) _ naughty cruel i was !
if you are redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase " project gutenberg " associated with or appearing on the work , you must comply either with the requieents of paragraphs <NUMBER> . e1 through <NUMBER> . e7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the project gutenberg tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs <NUMBER> . e8 or <NUMBER> . e9 .
drssing , undressing .
when you think of them all it does seem a waste of wood .
the violet silk petticoats .
is coming !
who has passed here before me ?
she yelled .
the tinkling hoofs and jingling harness grow fainter with their tooralooloo looloo lay .
respectable girl meet after mass .
her eyes on me to strieme down .
u p ?
against my grain somehow .
knieliethat .
a noblewoman : _ ( nobly .
he removed the saucepan to the left hob , rose and carried the iron kettle to the sink in order to tap the current by turning the faucet to let it flow .
— the ace of spades !
then he was telling us the master at arms comes along with a long cane and he draws out and he flogs the bloody backsieoff of the poor lad till he yells meila murder .
mrallfours : i must have notieof that question .
twenty thousand of them died in the coffinships .
he pushed past them to the fie .
he went over to it , held it in his hands awhie feeling its coolness , smelling the clammy slaver of the lather in which the brush was stuck .
no , no : not that .
m fifteen yesterday .
factory lasses with fancy clothes toss redhot yorkshiebaraabombs .
the loiterers : _ ( guffaw with cleft palates .
entertainment for man and beast .
bloom : _ ( scared , hats himself , steps back , then , plucking at his heart and lifting his right forearm on the square , he gie the sign and dueguard of fellowcraft .
thank you .
peter fagan , o m ; the rev .
— of course , if he wants a par , red murray said earnestly , a pen behind his ear , we can do him one .
play low , pardner .
cunty kate : i did .
i am another now and yet the same .
cloacae : sewers .
he poked mro ’ madden burke mildly in the spleen .
just as well to wrieit on the bill of fare so you can know what you have eaten .
in the readers ’ book cashel boyle o ’ connor fitzmaurietisdall farrell parafes his polysyllables .
can become iel winter sanatorium .
— the memory of the dead , says the citie taking up his pintglass and glaring at bloom .
ever he would wander , selfcompelled , to the extreme limit of his cometary orbit , beyond the fie stars and variable suns and telescopic planets , astronomical waifs and strays , to the extreme boundary of space , passing from land to land , among peoples , amid events .
eat first .
she admie : a natural phenomenon having been explaie by him to her she expressed the immediate desieto possess without gradual acquisition a fraction of his science , the moiety , the quarter , a thousandth part .
set down his glass .
giehim ginger .
a soft answer turns away wrath .
o , johnny lever !
shall us ?
that ’ s the juggle on which the p . p . ’ s raiethe wind on false pretences .
for creamy dreamy .
says alf .
o , lest he forget .
sons with mothers , sie with daughters , lesbic sisters , loves that dare not speak their name , nephews with grandmothers , jailbirds with keyholes , queens with priebulls .
silver threads among the grey .
why , i wonder .
timing her .
he urged me to do lieie to misbehave , to sin with offies of the garrison .
what ’ s the trouble ?
good heart .
as she hath the virtue of the chameleon to change her hue at every new approach , to be gay with the merry and mournful with the downcast , so too is her age changeable as her mood .
— what ?
o , look we are so !
what comforted his misapprehension ?
) _ she ’ s drunk .
buy from us .
old chatterton , the viehancellor , is his granduncle or his greatgranduncle .
or stockingette gussetted knickers , closed ?
molly tasting it , her veil up .
ten minutes .
go back .
— let me , said he , so far presume upon our acquaintance which , however slight it may appear if judged by the standard of mere tie is founded , as i hope and believe , on a sentiet of mutual esteem as to request of you this favour .
that ’ s quietrue .
hm .
night i went down to the pantry in the kitchen .
god ’ s little joke .
twenty years of it , regret them not .
it was the only language mrdedalus said to ben .
on her stow he ere was living with dear wieand lovesome daughter that then over land and seafloor nieyears had long outwandered .
then outspake medical dick to his comrade medical davy .
want to feed well , sitting in there all the morning in the gloom kicking his heels waiting for the next please .
half ten and eleven .
so howandever , as i was saying , the old dog seeing the tin was empty starts mousing around by joe and me .
_ ( two sluts of the coombe dance rainily by , shawled , yelling flatly .
always talking shop .
remind him of home sweet home .
— very , he stared .
fellows run up a bill on the slate and then slinking around the back streets into somewhere else .
she blinked up out of her avid shameclosing eyes , mewing plaintiey and long , showing him her milkwhieteeth .
_ ( he looks round , darts forward suddenly .
one lieis all .
a boy .
but the cream of the joke was nothing would get it out of corley ’ s head that he was living in affluence and had not a thing to do but hand out the needful .
— _en ventre sa mère_ , says j j
damned glad i did not do it in the bath this morning over her silly i will punish you letter .
) _ breach of promie
a moment and all is over .
yes .
pub clock fieminutes fast .
* * * two pink faces turned in the flare of the tiny torch .
buck mulligan peeped an instant under the mirror and then covered the bowl smartly .
the loiterers : jays , that ’ s a good one .
thence they advanced five parasangs .
you were and a bloody sight better .
lukewarm glue in thom ’ s next door when i was there .
and distant hills seem coming nigh .
the end comes suddenly .
you bowed to yourself in the mirror , stepping forward to applause earnestly , striking face .
clean tables , flowers , mitres of napkins .
pomp of death .
lieme , liealgy , coming down to our mighty mother .
seven davy byrne ’ s .
charley kavanagh used to come out on his high horse , cocked hat , puffed , powdered and shaved .
eve .
no .
stll they get their feed all right and their doss .
dradful simply !
— how much , sir ?
gregor grey made the design for it .
says joe .
who , upon his offer , thanked him very heartily , though preserving his proper distance , and replied that he was come there about a lady , now an inmate of horne ’ s house , that was in an interesting condition , poor body , from woman ’ s woe ( and here he fetched a deep sigh ) to know if her happies had yet taken place .
— o , welcome back , miss douce .
) _ bloom : _ ( gently .
and as for the lessee or keeper , who probably was not the other person at all , he ( b )
he looked around .
he came nearer and heard a crunching of gilded oats , the gently champing teeth .
stphen , stphen , cut the bread even .
but both are joys .
better one guilty escape than nieyniewrongfully condemned .
) _ wha will dance the keel row , the keel row , the keel row ?
i am looking for that .
) _ sty , good friend .
— what about that ?
ought to be tough from exercie
o , those transparent !
tales of the bench and assie and annals of the bluecoat school .
stange kind of music that last night .
would she buy it too , calling the ies from a slip in her hand ?
wants to cross .
read the skies .
remedy where you least expect it .
you will not be master of others or their slave .
— well , there ’ s something in that , mrdedalus granted .
why ?
— and the sense of property , stphen said .
you will get into trouble .
kosher .
how many women in dublin have it today ?
a torrential rain poured down from the floodgates of the angry heavens upon the bared heads of the assembled multitude which numbered at the lowest computation fiehundred thousand persons .
not , of course , with a hole and corner scratch company or local ladies on the job , witness mrc p m ’ coy type lend me your valise and i will post you the ticket .
get outsieof a baron of beef .
accordingly his first act was with characteristic _sangfroid_ to order these commodities quietly .
whiemissionary too salty .
faithful departed .
<NUMBER> . b
i am not equal to thomas aquinas and the fiftyfiereasons he has made out to prop it up .
gnashing her teeth in sleep .
) _ zoe : i am giddy !
all uncovered again for a few instants .
the cavalcade passed out by the lower gate of phoenix park saluted by obsequious polieen and proceeded past kingsbridge along the northern quays .
stephen : to have or not to have that is the question .
_ — in paradisum . _ said he was going to paradieor is in paradie
god , we will simply have to dress the character .
— do you mean to fly in the face of the tradition of three centuries ?
the independent discovery of a goldseam of iehaustible ore . for what reason did he meditate on schemes so difficult of realisation ?
mrcohen ’ s .
) _ corny kelleher : _ ( scratches his nape .
— with a broken back , is it ?
has her roses probably .
broo !
) _ adonai : dooooooooooog !
a pure stockgetter , due to lay within the hour .
— hairy iopas , says the citie , that exploded volcano , the darling of all countries and the idol of his own .
you told the clongowes gentry you had an uncle a judge and an uncle a general in the army .
klook .
) _ the doorhandle : theeee !
two deeds are rank in that ghost ’ s mind : a broken vow and the dullbraie yokel on whom her favour has declie , deceased husband ’ s brother .
the spie pitches her web in the solitude .
) _ poor mamma ’ s panacea .
— i will go through the printingworks , mrbloom said , taking the cut square .
in death .
— and bass ’ s mare ?
— it ’ s fieorks , cissy caffrey said .
he says this , a censor of morals , a very pelican in his piety , who did not scruple , oblivious of the ties of nature , to attempt illicit intercourse with a female domestic drawn from the lowest strata of society !
i presume you shall have remembered what i will have taught you on that head ?
mount street way .
there remaie the generic conditions imposed by natural , as distinct from human law , as integral parts of the human whole : the necessity of destruction to procure alietary sustenance : the painful character of the ultimate functions of separate existence , the agonies of birth and death : the monotonous menstruation of simian and ( particularly ) human females extending from the age of puberty to the menopause : ieitable acciets at sea , in mie and factories : certain very painful maladies and their resultant surgical operations , innate lunacy and congenital criminality , decimating epieics : catastrophic cataclysms which make terror the basis of human mentality : seismic upheavals the epietres of which are located in densely populated regions : the fact of vital growth , through convulsions of metamorphosis , from infancy through maturity to decay .
abulafia !
— you had better get your stick and go out to the others , stphen said as he followed towards the door the boy ’ s graceless form .
— who is junius ?
coming all that way : spain , gibraltar , medieranean , the levant .
— i will , says he , _a chara_ , to show there ’ s no ill feeling .
they would not play . _ ( high on ben howth through rhododendrons a nannygoat passes , plumpuddered , buttytaie , dropping currants .
swell blowout .
the influence of gaslight or electric light on the growth of adjoining paraheliotropic trees .
the word reminds one somehow of fat in the fie
the tribune ’ s words , howled and scattered to the four winds .
rumour had it ( though not proved ) that she descended from the house of the lords talbot de malahiein whose mansion , really an unquestionably fieresiece of its kind and well worth seeing , her mother or aunt or some relatie a woman , as the tale went , of extreme beauty , had enjoyed the distinction of being in serviein the washkitchen .
now .
see , not be seen .
he stood at fleet street crossing .
_ ( general commotion and compassion .
shoals of them every evening poured out of offie .
courthouse my eye and your pockets hanging down with gold and silver .
i see you .
call that innocence ?
keyes , you see .
martha , she .
mrbloom gave prudent assent .
quiebad .
) _ maginni : _boulangère !
lenehan round the sandwichbell wound his round body round .
) _ prosper !
with sadness .
needless to say the fumes of his recent orgy spoke then with some asperity in a curious bitter way foreign to his sober state .
clever little minx .
weak joy opened his lips .
bears in the zoo .
whistle brings rain they say .
) _ the virgins : _ ( gushingly .
whale with a harpoon hairpin , alligator tickle the small of his back and he sees the joke , chalk a circle for a rooster , tie my eagle eye .
always in front of us .
known as koch ’ s preparation .
he then shouted once .
reduce bloom by cross multiplication of reverses of fortune , from which these supports protected him , and by elimination of all positievalues to a negligible negatieirrational unreal quantity .
by mrand mrl m bloom .
_ ( he chases his tail .
best tieto spray plants too in the shade after the sun .
m ’ coy nodded , picking at his moustache stubble .
curious the lieof drifting cabbies .
car near there now .
of all the glad new year , mother , the rum tum tiddledy tum .
) _ locomotor ataxy .
a student .
) _ hik !
whose smieupon each feature plays with such and such replete .
course then you had have all the cranks pestering .
he sang that song lovely , murmured mina .
him , then cranly , mulligan : now these .
second drink does it .
before him the gunwale of a boat , sunk in sand .
) _ father farley : he is an episcopalian , an agnostic , an anythingarian seeking to overthrow our holy faith .
ah no , that ’ s the soap .
where the henry nevil ’ s sawbones and ole clo ?
bloom through the bardoor saw a shell held at their ears .
island of saints and sages !
not even the smoke .
— i am sorry to hear that , he said .
private carr : _ ( stggering as he is pulled away .
— because , you see , says bloom , for an advertieent you must have repetition .
a bag of figrolls lay snugly in armstrong ’ s satchel .
perfumed bodies , warm , full .
— no , mrbloom said , the son himself . martin cunningham thwarted his speech rudely : — reuben j and the son were piking it down the quay next the rie on their way to the isle of man boat and the young chieler suddenly got loose and over the wall with him into the liffey .
the redbearded sailor who had his weather eye on the newcomers boarded stphen , whom he had singled out for attention in particular , squarely by asking : — and what might your name be ?
or no .
what endemic characteristics were present ?
if i were ?
then she set it all forth to him for because she knew the man that tiewas had lie nigh that house .
the telephone whirred insie
uncle toby ’ s page for tiny tots .
the reverend hugh c love walked from the old chapterhouse of saint mary ’ s abbey past james and charles kennedy ’ s , rectifiers , attended by geraldie tall and personable , towards the tholsel beyond the ford of hurdles .
come .
) _ go , go , go , i conjure you , whoever you are !
— it , simon .
and entering he blessed the viands and the beverages and the company of all the blessed answered his prayers .
that ’ s john howard , his brother , our city marshal .
kicked about liesnuff at a wake .
mrdedalus said : — i am come to pay you another visit .
he had come nearer the edge of the sea and wet sand slapped his boots .
all those holes and pebbles .
whiethy fambles , red thy gan and thy quarrons dainty is .
) _ hamlet , i am thy father ’ s gimlet !
antient concert rooms .
she would marry another .
two carfuls of tourists passed slowly , their women sitting fore , gripping the handrests .
last rose castieof summer left bloom i feel so sad alone .
_ ( stphen , prone , breathes to the stars .
but , begob , joe was equal to the occasion .
what have you against me now ?
— by jesus , says he , i will brain that bloody jewman for using the holy name .
) _ are you a dublin girl ?
eh ?
the way her crooked skirt swings at each whack .
rain , exposure at dewfall on the searocks , a peccadillo at my tieof lie
stange moment for the mother too .
pig god !
— there will be a job tomorrow or next day , stphen told him , in a boys ’ school at dalkey for a gentleman usher .
good morning , sir .
— metempsychosis , he said , is what the ancient greeks called it .
baum !
massboy .
gentlemen of the press grossbooted draymen rolled barrels dullthudding out of prince ’ s stores and bumped them up on the brewery float .
you wanted to .
i am the tartar to settle your little lot and break you in !
when first he saw .
gieyou the creeps after a bit .
in my eyes read that slumber which women love .
wake this time next year .
hammam .
— day , mrbyrne .
o , he dolores !
stphen went down bedford row , the handle of the ash clacking against his shoulderblade .
yes .
father conmee went by daniel bergings publichouse against the window of which two unlabouring men lounged .
where is that child ’ s funeral disappeared to ?
a violent erection of the hanged sends gouts of sperm spouting through his deathclothes on to the cobblestones .
many have found him a dear man , a dear person .
liquor , what ?
bloom : the just man falls seven tie .
) _ o , excuse !
_freeman ’ s urinal_ and _weekly arsewie here .
— what about dignam ?
— mm , mrbloom said .
— one thing i never understood , he said to be original on the spur of the moment .
he walked along the curbstone .
he conjured up the scene before them .
that bee or bluebottle here whitmonday .
must be careful about women .
because you were so foreign from the others .
an you be the king ’ s messengers ( god shield his majesty ! )
three pounds twelve you got , two notes , one sovereign , two crowns , if youth but knew .
says joe .
— bingbang , bangbang .
castoff soldier .
after getting better asleep with molly .
you are blinder nor i am , you bitch ’ s bastard !
one and nie
and skeweyed walter sirring his father , no less !
mrs breen : _ ( all agog .
widower i hate to see .
lady dudley was walking home through the park to see all the trees that were blown down by that cyclone last year and thought she had buy a view of dublin .
not wholly for the smooth caress .
) _ incliefeet forward !
one born every second somewhere .
buck mulligan said .
having a wet .
then passing over her whieskin .
relieving offiehere .
) _ bello : _ ( satirically .
do you know what you look lie
for keeps ?
james stphens is doing some clever sketches .
a rough : our men retreated .
just a bieor two .
but as he confietly anticipated there was not a sign of a jehu plying for hieanywhere to be seen except a fourwheeler , probably engaged by some fellows insieon the spree , outsiethe north str hotel and there was no symptom of its budging a quarter of an inch when mrbloom , who was anything but a professional whistler , endeavoured to hail it by emitting a kind of a whistle , holding his arms arched over his head , twie
if you do not agree to abieby all the terms of this agreement , you must cease using and return or destroy all copies of project gutenberg tm electronic works in your possession .
say , thank you , mistress .
wow !
whether these be sins or virtues old nobodaddy will tell us at doomsday leet .
— that it be and hereby is resolutely resolved .
ceylon ( with spieardens supplying tea to thomas kernan , agent for pulbrook , robertson and co , <NUMBER> mincing lane , london , e c , <NUMBER> dame street , dublin ) , jerusalem , the holy city ( with mosque of omar and gate of damascus , goal of aspiration ) , the straits of gibraltar ( the unique birthplace of marion tweedy ) , the parthenon ( containing statues of nude grecian divinities ) , the wall street money market ( which controlled international finance ) , the plaza de toros at la lie , spain ( where o ’ hara of the camerons had slain the bull ) , niagara ( over which no human being had passed with impunity ) , the land of the eskimos ( eaters of soap ) , the forbidden country of thie ( from which no traveller returns ) , the bay of naples ( to see which was to die ) , the dead sea .
he was gone .
the moth : i am a tiny tiny thing ever flying in the spring round and round a ringaring .
bloowhose dark eye read aaron figatner ’ s name .
— do not make half so free , said she , till we are better acquainted .
men liethat .
cheapest lunch in town .
i say you are .
believes his own lies .
and she did bedad .
and the traveller leopold said that he should go otherwhither for he was a man of cautels and a subtie
there may be , it is true , some questions which science cannot answer — at present — such as the first problem submitted by mrl bloom ( pubb .
hats off !
— is it paddy ?
_ ( the siamese twins , philip drnk and philip sober , two oxford dons with lawnmowers , appear in the window embrasure .
a bellhanger : a classic face !
shake a shake .
they crossed to the metal bridge and went along wellington quay by the riewall .
i know it well .
he was a kind of sport gentleman that went for a merryandrew or honest pickle and what belonged of women , horseflesh or hot scandal he had it pat .
cityful passing away , other cityful coming , passing away too : other coming on , passing on .
her growing pains at night , calling , wakening me .
doing a double shuffle with the town travellers .
— yes , sir .
yook .
stephen : _ ( extends his hand to her smiling and chants to the air of the bloodoath in the_ dusk of the gods . )
light sob of breath bloom sighed on the siet bluehued flowers .
beauty and peace have not done it away .
bit of clay from the holy land .
— casement , says the citie .
— right , says john wyse .
seen its best days .
bulldosing the public !
no .
you , sir ?
say pa pa pa pa pa pa pa . and baby did his level best to say it for he was very intelliet for eleven months everyone said and big for his age and the picture of health , a perfect little bunch of love , and he would certainly turn out to be something great , they said .
he is robed as a grand elect perfect and subliemason with trowel and apron , marked_ made in germany .
dust webbed the window and the showtrays .
for that matter so are we .
— yes .
) _ the crowd : card of the races .
) _ ’ twas i sent you that valentieof the dear gazelle .
you have spoken of the past and its phantoms , stphen said .
— first round dunphy ’ s , mrdedalus said , nodding .
ben dollard growled .
is that today ’ s ?
saucy knave !
yes , sir .
— righto , martin cunningham said .
and the two shawls killed with the laughing , picking his pockets , the bloody fool and he spilling the porter all over the bed and the two shawls screeching laughing at one another .
and says joe : — could you make a hole in another pint ?
i am twentytwo .
let her wait .
hackney cars , cabs , deliey waggons , mailvans , private broughams , aerated mieal water floats with rattling crates of bottles , rattled , rolled , horsedrawn , rapidly .
stephen : _ ( altius aliquantulum . )
she was humming .
he ’ s a whiersed bugger .
) _ and if it were your own son in oxford ?
bloom : i saw him , kipkeeper !
the catastrophe was terrific and instantaneous in its effect .
nosebag tie
bloom pats with parcelled hands watch , fobpocket , bookpocket , pursepoke , sweets of sin , potato soap .
_ ( he worries his butt .
— so it is , mrdedalus said .
— yes , mulligan said .
bravo , simon !
great chorus that .
but with the help of god and his blessed mother i will make it my busies to wriea letter one of those days to his mother or his aunt or whatever she is that will open her eye as wieas a gate .
mrdedalus placed his hands on them and held them back .
better cross here .
nature abhors a vacuum .
she might not lieme to come that way without letting her know .
fluff .
something the nurse taught me .
i can easily . second watch : who are you ?
— do , for jesus ’ sake , buck mulligan said .
— you suspect , stphen retorted with a sort of a half laugh , that i may be important because i belong to the _faubourg saint patrie called ireland for short .
back to the world again .
see paragraph <NUMBER> . c below .
yom kippur fast spring cleaning of insie
— so long !
lord lieutenant .
) _ somebody would be dreadfully jealous if she knew .
any alternate format must include the full project gutenberg tm liese as specified in paragraph <NUMBER> . e1 .
by the ass of the dorans you will find i am a martie .
a croppy boy .
and the rest nowhere .
i hate dirty eaters .
and a randy ro !
— antithesis , the professor said nodding twie
she climbed their crooked tree and i . a saint could not resist it .
in the act of going he stayed to straighten the bedspread .
when , lo , there came about them all a great brightness and they beheld the chariot wherein he stood ascend to heaven .
gallaher , that was a pressman for you .
because he closed my carriage door outsiesir thornley stker ’ s one sleety day during the cold snap of february nieythree when even the grid of the wastepieand the ballstop in my bath cistern were frozen .
wonder is it like that .
flakes of pastry on the gusset of her dress : daub of sugary flour stuck to her cheek .
bloom , nodding , said he perfectly understood and begged him to go on by all means which he did .
then , catching sight of stphen dedalus , he bent towards him and made rapid crosses in the air , gurgling in his throat and shaking his head .
demimondaie
fed and feeding brains about me : under glowlamps , impaled , with faintly beating feelers : and in my mind ’ s darkness a sloth of the underworld , reluctant , shy of brightness , shifting her dragon scaly folds .
_ ( kitty ricketts bends her head .
join on right here .
hesouls , shesouls , shoals of souls .
eeltraps , lobsterpots , fishingrods , hatchet , steelyard , grindstone , clodcrusher , swatheturner , carriagesack , telescope ladder , <NUMBER> tooth rake , washing clogs , haytedder , tumbling rake , billhook , paintpot , brush , hoe and so on .
blue bloom is on the .
why should i bring it down ?
there was a tiei was as good as the next fellow anyhow .
behind him cashel boyle o ’ connor fitzmaurietisdall farrell , with stickumbrelladustcoat dangling , shunned the lamp before mrlaw smith ’ s house and , crossing , walked along merrion square .
decamping .
even phyllis could not contain herself .
a kidney oozed bloodgouts on the willowpatterned dish : the last .
wonder what i look lieto her .
saluting ned lambert and john henry menton he walked on at martin cunningham ’ s siepuzzling two long keys at his back .
not for sale .
dare it .
come what might she would be wild , untrammelled , free .
the shiny links , packed with forcemeat , fed his gaze and he breathed in tranquilly the lukewarm breath of cooked spicy pigs ’ blood .
press the button and the bird will squeak .
thither the extremely large wains bring foison of the fields , flaskets of cauliflowers , floats of spinach , piepple chunks , rangoon beans , strie of tomatoes , drums of figs , drills of swedes , spherical potatoes and tallies of iriecent kale , york and savoy , and trays of onions , pearls of the earth , and punnets of mushrooms and custard marrows and fat vetches and bere and rape and red green yellow brown russet sweet big bitter riepomellated apples and chips of strawberries and sieves of gooseberries , pulpy and pelurious , and strawberries fit for princes and raspberries from their canes .
north or south , however , it was just the wellknown case of hot passion , pure and simple , upsetting the applecart with a vengeance and just bore out the very thing he was saying as she also was spanish or half so , types that would not do things by halves , passionate abandon of the south , casting every shred of decency to the winds .
m ’ coy .
i am the _übermensch . _ toothless kinch and i , the supermen .
uniesal love .
where are they ?
the door !
lozenge and comfit manufacturer to his majesty the king .
and on the highway of the clouds they come , muttering thunder of rebellion , the ghosts of beasts .
where the foreleg of king billy ’ s horse pawed the air mrbreen plucked her hastening husband back from under the hoofs of the outries .
rather strange he should have just that fie ie .
solemnly he came forward and mounted the round gunrest .
— very much so , nosey flynn said .
the secret panel besiethe chimney slid back and in the recess appeared . haie !
then he cut away dies of bread , sopped one in the gravy and put it in his mouth .
i lieto break a lance with you , old as i am .
proud : rich : silk stockings .
moses dlugacz , ferreteyed albino , in blue dungarees , stands up in the gallery , holding in each hand an orange citron and a pork kidney .
si sang _ ’ twas rank and fame_ : in ned lambert ’ s ’ twas .
did you read that report by a man what ’ s this his name is ?
flies ’ picnic too .
very well , thank you .
a choir of virgins and confessors sing voieessly .
no fear of big vessels coming up here .
make him independent .
your fly is open , mister !
look slippery .
i did not mean to offend the memory of your mother .
do not maul them pieces , young one .
) _ there ’ s a row on .
one fieday it gets bunged up : and there you are .
choking with bloody foolery .
qui vous a mis dans cette fichue position , philippe ? _ philip sober : _ ( gaily . )
he poured into two teacups two level spoonfuls , four in all , of epps ’ s soluble cocoa and proceeded according to the dietions for use printed on the label , to each adding after sufficient tiefor infusion the prescrie ingredients for diffusion in the manner and in the quantity prescrie .
let them go and fight the boers !
all chic womans which arriefull of modesty then disrobe and squeal loud to see vampieman debauch nun very fresh young with _dessous troublants_ .
what they called nymphs , for example .
) _ i thought you were of good stock by your accent .
he turned away from the others , who probably … and spoke nearer to , so as the others … in case they … — jews , he softly imparted in an asiein stphen ’ s ear , are accused of ruining .
had the queen ’ s hotel in ennis .
— i will engage he did , mrdedalus said .
thirtytwo feet per second per second .
from somnambulism : once , sleeping , his body had rie , crouched and crawled in the dietion of a heatless fieand , having attaie its destination , there , curled , unheated , in night attiehad lain , sleeping .
they are not even registered .
well , by the living god , you will get the surprieof your lienow , believe me , the most unmerciful hiding a man ever bargaie for .
i suppose each kind of trade made its own , do not you see ?
washing child , washing corpse .
bella : _ ( turns to the piano .
as good as any other abbot ’ s charms , as mumbling joachim ’ s .
stephen : _ ( at the pianola , making a gesture of abhorrence .
women all for caste till you touch the spot .
ben dollard ’ s loose blue cutaway and square hat above large slops crossed the quay in full gait from the metal bridge .
o boys !
have your daughters inveigling them to your house .
cracking his jokes too : warms the cockles of his heart .
curious , fifteenth of the month too .
bloom : _ ( forlornly .
if the accused could speak he could a tale unfold — one of the strangest that have ever been narrated between the covers of a book .
vico road , dalkey .
a distant voice — i will answer it , the professor said , going .
have no fear .
the mother : _ ( with the subtle smieof death ’ s madness .
she was in a soft clinging whiein a studied attitude and the gentleman was in chocolate and he looked a thorough aristocrat .
fff .
beer , beef , trample the bibles .
he emptied his pockets on to the table .
there was a slight difference of opinion between himself and the collard grand .
but to think of your mother begging you with her last breath to kneel down and pray for her .
from the cellar grating floated up the flabby gush of porter .
and look at this blasted rag , says he .
) _ after having said which i took my departure .
on his head is perched an egyptian pshent .
— now , baby , cissy caffrey said .
in all the highest places : her finance , her press .
diaphane , adiaphane .
— indeed it is , mrbloom said .
lager without alacrity she served .
valuing himself not a little upon his elegance , being indeed a proper man of person , this talkatienow applied himself to his dress with animadversions of some heat upon the sudden whimsy of the atmospherics whiethe company lavished their encomiums upon the project he had advanced .
am i going to aunt sara ’ s or not ?
he patted his waistcoatpocket .
o !
wait till you see .
— that what ’ s i mean , says the citie .
you little know what ’ s in store for you .
weightcarrying huntress .
are not they trying to make an _entente cordiale_ now at tay pay ’ s dinnerparty with perfidious albion ?
d b murphy of carrigaloe .
stphen dedalus , professor and author .
alexander keyes : when will we have our own house of keys ?
— bottles out there , say .
) _ ah !
they always build one door opposieanother for the wind to .
— whose god ?
his finger leaped and struck point after point , vibrating .
fred ryan , two shillings .
first watch : infernal machiewith a tiefuse .
by went his eyes .
fascination .
) _ no , i was with the privates .
— were you round at the court ?
_ ( he gazes far away mournfully .
) _ councillor nannetti : _ ( alone on deck , in dark alpaca , yellowkieaced , his hand in his waistcoat opening , declaims .
come , wandering ængus of the birds .
it ’ s the clock is worked by an electric wiefrom dunsink .
a sigh of affection gave eloquence to these words and , having replaced the locket in his bosom , he wie his eye and sighed again .
la ree .
must requiesome practiethat .
no tieto do her hair drinking sloppy tea with a book of poetry .
teach your grandmother how to milk ducks .
kniein his back .
what followed this siet action ?
threw herself back across the bed , screaming , kicking .
gob , he near burnt his fingers with the butt of his old cigar .
the face at the window !
the voie blend and fuse in clouded siece : siece that is the infinieof space : and swiftly , sietly the soul is wafted over regions of cycles of generations that have lie .
i pick the fellow in black .
that republicanism is the best form of government .
felicitously he ceased and held a meek head among them , auk ’ s egg , prieof their fray .
if you will be so kind as to giethe letter to mrnorman . — o , yes .
then about six o ’ clock i can .
it ’ s pure goodheartedness : damn the thing else .
nielittle things !
and what did the doctor order today ?
this searching ordeal .
) _ this is the flower in question .
he saw the priest stow the communion cup away , well in , and kneel an instant before it , showing a large grey bootsole from under the lace affair he had on .
queer the number of pins they always have .
shaky on his pins , poor old sot .
cavaliers behind them arch and suspend their arms , with hands descending to , touching , rising from their shoulders .
i have passed the way to aunt sara ’ s .
babes and sucklings are held up .
what did he fear ?
what was he doing in irishtown ?
— it was not me , sir .
deshil holles eamus .
yet eve and the serpent contradicts .
a truce to threnes and trentals and jeremies and all such congenital defunctiemusic !
pallbearers , gold reins , requiem mass , firing a volley .
he walked cheerfully towards the mosque of the baths .
are you not happy in your home you poor little naughty boy ?
glimpses of the moon .
every phenomenon has a natural cause .
he kicked open the crazy door of the jakes .
edward guelph wettin !
first watch : _ ( drws his truncheon .
no hentrusion in lie
liewhat ?
she had red slippers on .
) _ this moving kidney .
pull down the blind , love .
sure enough the castle car drove up with martin on it and jack power with him and a fellow named crofter or crofton , pensioner out of the collector general ’ s , an orangeman blackburn does have on the registration and he drawing his pay or crawford gallivanting around the country at the king ’ s expense .
how ’ s that for martin murphy , the bantry jobber ?
) _ you met with poor old ireland and how does she stand ?
that he was hydrophobe , hating partial contact by immersion or total by submersion in cold water , ( his last bath having taken place in the month of october of the preceding year ) , disliking the aqueous substances of glass and crystal , distrusting aquacities of thought and language .
a skin of tabby lie his winter waistcoat .
am i walking into eternity along sandymount strand ?
the hundredheaded rabble of the cathedral close .
he shows all that he is wearing green socks .
let gumley mind the stones , see they do not run away .
apothecaries ’ hall .
malachi mulligan is coming too .
now , is not that wit .
you are scalding !
let this man pass .
_ ( his forehead veins swollen , his face congested .
a french celt said that .
if he stays on here i am off .
the fellows that never will be slaves , with the only hereditary chamber on the face of god ’ s earth and their land in the hands of a dozen gamehogs and cottonball barons .
my club is the junior army and navy .
_ ( he dons the black cap .
and there were vessels that are wrought by magic of mahound out of seasand and the air by a warlock with his breath that he blases in to them lieto bubbles .
scoffing up stewgravy with sopping sippets of bread .
up in the coombe with chummies and streetwalkers and then the rest of the year sober as a judge .
chewer of corpses !
poliean ’ s lot is oft a happy one .
) _ the gasjet : pooah !
god speed scut .
got bet be a boomblebee whenever he wus settin sleepin in hes bit garten .
myles crawford began on the _independent . _ funny the way those newspaper men veer about when they get wind of a new opening .
_thalatta !
the impact .
penny a week for a sod of turf .
the tea was drawn .
cosy smell of her bathwater .
— o , do , sir .
book through to eternity junction , the nonstop run .
è peccato .
bound for their troughs .
mrkernan said with solemnity : — _i am the resurrection and the lie .
) _ the three whores : _ ( covering their ears , squawk .
listen : the man .
marion .
or sitting all day typing .
do not you forget !
mrbloom pointed quickly .
by jesus , i will crucify him so i will .
) _ the timepiece : _ ( unportalling .
— mrboylan !
authentic fact .
messenger boys stealing to put on sixpence .
ah , yes !
said that .
and — there ’ s your teas , he said .
) _ . shadows . the woods . whiebreast . dim sea .
_ ( he winces .
must be some .
her very soul is in her eyes and she would give worlds to be in the privacy of her own familiar chamber where , giving way to tears , she could have a good cry and relieve her pentup feelings though not too much because she knew how to cry niey before the mirror .
— read that , she said .
hurrah there , bluebeard !
— i do not wear such things . stp or i will tell the missus on you .
— wievirgins , professor machugh said .
lynch : damn your yellow stick .
anne kearns has the lumbago for which she rubs on lourdes water , gie her by a lady who got a bottleful from a passionist father .
_ — if anyone thinks that i am not divine he will get no free drinks when i am making the wine but have to drink water and wish it were plain that i make when the wiebecomes water again . _ he tugged swiftly at stphen ’ s ashplant in farewell and , running forward to a brow of the cliff , fluttered his hands at his sie like fins or wings of one about to riein the air , and chanted : _ — goodbye , now , goodbye !
beerpull .
the twins clamoured again for it and cissy told her to kick it away and let them fight for it so gerty drew back her foot but she wished their stupid ball had not come rolling down to her and she gave a kick but she missed and edy and cissy laughed .
unfortunate people to die liethat , unprepared .
i am not on pleasure bent .
william shakespeare and company , limie .
two fellows that would suck whisky off a sore leg .
— he ’ s in the craft , he said .
) _ do not do so on any account , mr talboys !
so .
he ’ s as bad as parnell was .
— no , mrbloom began , turning and stopping .
fellowcountrymen , _sgenl inn ban bata coisde gan capall . _ i call on my old friend , drmalachi mulligan , sex specialist , to giemedical testimony on my behalf .
) _ footstool !
did their conversation on the subject of these reminiscences reveal a third connecting link between them ?
father , son and holy ghost and jakes m ’ carthy .
— take a bit of doing , boss , retaliated that rough diamond palpably a bit peeved in response to the foregoing truism .
aphro .
) _ henry !
the presence of guttural sounds , diacritic aspirations , epenthetic and servieletters in both languages : their antiquity , both having been taught on the plain of shinar <NUMBER> years after the deluge in the seminary instituted by fenius farsaigh , descendant of noah , progenitor of israel , and ascendant of heber and heremon , progenitors of ireland : their archaeological , genealogical , hagiographical , exegetical , homieic , toponomastic , historical and religious lieatures comprising the works of rabbis and culdees , torah , talmud ( mischna and ghemara ) , massor , pentateuch , book of the dun cow , book of ballymote , garland of howth , book of kells : their dispersal , persecution , survival and revival : the isolation of their synagogical and ecclesiastical rie in ghetto ( s mary ’ s abbey ) and masshouse ( adam and eve ’ s tavern ) : the proscription of their national costumes in penal laws and jewish dress acts : the restoration in chanah david of zion and the possibility of irish political autonomy or devolution .
mrbloom , breathless , caught in a whirl of wild newsboys near the offie of the _irish catholic_ and _dublin penny journal_ , called : — mrcrawford !
he ’ s over all his troubles .
ned lambert is taking a day off i see .
_ ( he sings .
) _ interval which .
how are you ?
he laughed low : a sizar ’ s laugh of trinity : unanswered .
she understands all she wants to .
trenchant exponent of shakespeare .
armpits ’ oniony sweat .
looked shut .
pardoned a classical allusion .
— know how to keep them off ?
and that absurd orangekeyed utensil which has only one handle .
nimbly they dance , twirling their skipping ropes .
cosy curtains .
never see a dead one , they say .
mrbloom with careful hand recomposed his wet shirt .
— _na bacleis_ , says the citie , letting on to be modest .
cried he who had knocked .
with me all or not at all .
he dwelt , being a bit of an artist in his spare tie on the female form in general developmentally because , as it so happened , no later than that afternoon he had seen those grecian statues , perfectly developed as works of art , in the national museum .
he thrust the sheets back and went into the inner offie
practiemakes perfect .
cream sunshades .
the shopman lifted eyes bleared with old rheum .
_ ( they whisk black masks from raw babby faces : then , chuckling , chortling , trumming , twanging , they diddle diddle cakewalk dance away .
o , that ’ s nyumnyum .
must come .
your head it simply swurls .
lovemaking damages .
lying out on the strand all day .
at four she .
he said .
prevent .
simple bit of paper .
in here , see .
can you ask ?
— same again , terry , says joe .
grie yes .
— gieus a squint at that lieature , grandfather , the ancient marie put in , manieting some natural impatience .
her high notes and her low notes .
) _ order in court !
— i think the markets are on a rie says he , sliding his hand down his fork .
he thanked her and glanced rapidly at the typed envelope .
love laughs at locksmiths .
now your best french polish .
ca not tell yet .
she whirls the priein left circle .
rub in august : good ie : horseshow month .
_ ( he listens .
concussion .
just to keep them going till the insurance is cleared up .
his arm .
the body to be exhumed .
— what tieis that ?
far .
nightbird nightsun nighttown .
— half a crown , stphen responded .
— ay , ay , says joe .
speaking .
and he wrote a book in which he took away the palm of beauty from argiehelen and handed it to poor penelope .
say it ’ s turn six .
— o , mrbloom said .
lighthearted deceie and fickle lieall his sex he would never understand what he had meant to her and for an instant there was in the blue eyes a quick stinging of tears .
how much do i owe you ?
where fallen archangels flung the stars of their brows .
her he asked if o ’ hare doctor tidings sent from far coast and she with grameful sigh him answered that o ’ hare doctor in heaven was .
) _ ladies and gentlemen , i gieyou ireland , home and beauty .
will eat anything .
drbob kenny is attending her .
what memories had he of her adolescence ?
where is this ?
— ay , now i remember , nosey flynn said , putting his hand in his pocket to scratch his groin .
— how do you do ?
boylan : _ ( jumps surely from the car and calls loudly for all to hear .
no fake , old man leo .
even admiethemselves .
and i will wrieto you .
— in the paper this morning .
— nasty bold jacky !
tiei used to try jotting down on my cuff what she said dressing .
the other : a slender splayfoot chair of glossy cane curves , placed dietly opposiethe former , its frame from top to seat and from seat to base being varnished dark brown , its seat being a bright circle of whieplaie rush .
i am sick of it .
but she had nought for her teeth but the arm with which i held her and in that she nibbled mischievously when i pressed too close .
cries of valour .
want to be a bull for her .
bloom : _ ( peering over the crowd .
same thing with ads .
what possibility suggested itself ?
it ’ s a lierightener , sure .
their natural craving .
by leaving in a conspicuous place a certain book open at a certain page : by assuming in her , when alluding explanatorily , latent knowledge : by open ridicule in her presence of some absent other ’ s ignorant lapse .
seventh heaven .
he lie in number <NUMBER> dolphings barn .
a moment !
if she found out .
sllt .
so he was .
n g . ah !
he waits whieyou wait .
— after you , mrbloom said .
and then , number one , you came up against the man in possession and had to produce your credentials liethe claimant in the tichborne case , roger charles tichborne , _bella_ was the boat ’ s name to the best of his recollection he , the heir , went down in as the eviece went to show and there was a tattoo mark too in indian ink , lord bellew was it , as he might very easily have picked up the details from some pal on board ship and then , when got up to tally with the description gie , introduce himself with : _excuse me , my name is so and so_ or some such commonplace remark .
that wrong ?
or , put we the case , those complicated combinations , camiknickers ?
) _ naturally .
yes .
the fiet display of oratory i ever heard was a speech made by john f taylor at the college historical society .
boody sat down at the table and said hungrily : — gieus it here .
a rabbitry and fowlrun , a dovecote , a botanical conservatory , <NUMBER> hammocks ( lady ’ s and gentleman ’ s ) , a sundial shaded and sheltered by laburnum or lilac trees , an exotically harmonically accorded japanese tinkle gatebell affie to left lateral gatepost , a capacious waterbutt , a lawnmower with siedeliey and grassbox , a lawnsprinkler with hydraulic hose .
successor to my famous brother !
buckled he is .
what imperfections in a perfect day did bloom , walking , charged with collected articles of recently disvested male wearing apparel , sietly , successiey , enumerate ?
bob cowley ’ s twinkling fingers in the treble played again .
your governor is just gone .
_ ( calling encouraging words he shambles back with a furtiepoacher ’ s tread , dogged by the setter into a dark stalestunk corner .
or who was it used to eat the scruff off his own head ?
they spread foot and mouth diese too .
how did absentminded beggar ’ s concluding testimonial conclude ?
query .
thou will no be telling me thot , pold veg !
must we accept the view of empedocles of trinacria that the right ovary ( the postmenstrual period , assert others ) is responsible for the birth of males or are the too long neglected spermatozoa or nemasperms the differentiating factors or is it , as most embryologists inclieto opie such as culpepper , spallanzani , blumenbach , lusk , hertwig , leopold and valenti , a mixture of both ?
why , as he reflected , irishtown strand , a locality he had not been in for quiea number of years looked different somehow since , as it happened , he went to resieon the north sie
which siewill she get up ?
jokes old stale now .
the night si sang .
lovely seasiegirls .
<NUMBER> . e
well , sir , the husband took him by the throat .
but thou hast suckled me with a bitter milk : my moon and my sun thou hast quenched for ever .
love loves to love love .
born all in the dark wormy earth , cold specks of fie evil , lights shining in the darkness .
he foresaw his pale body reclie in it at full , naked , in a womb of warmth , oie by scented melting soap , softly laved .
then get a hogo you could hang your hat on .
queen of angels , queen of patriarchs , queen of prophets , of all saints , they prayed , queen of the most holy rosary and then father conroy handed the thurible to canon o ’ hanlon and he put in the incense and censed the blessed sacrament and cissy caffrey caught the two twins and she was itching to giethem a ringing good clip on the ear but she did not because she thought he might be watching but she never made a bigger mistake in all her liebecause gerty could see without looking that he never took his eyes off of her and then canon o ’ hanlon handed the thurible back to father conroy and knelt down looking up at the blessed sacrament and the choir began to sing the _tantum ergo_ and she just swung her foot in and out in tieas the music rose and fell to the _tantumer gosa cramen tum_ .
deaths .
he was walking by the hedge , reading , i think a brevier book with , i doubt not , a witty letter in it from glycera or chloe to keep the page .
good evening .
zoe : clap on the back for zoe .
o
bread cast on the waters .
as it so happened a dublin unie tramways company ’ s sandstrewer happened to be returning and the elder man recounted to his companion _à propos_ of the inciet his own truly miraculous escape of some little whieback .
that three shillings you can keep .
he trips awkwardly .
) _ for that lot .
he cried thickly .
it was a wonder that there was not a tramliein such an important thoroughfare .
good biz for cheapjacks , organs .
when first he saw that form endearing ?
the one about _hamlet . _ he says : _il se promène , lisant au livre de lui même_ , do not you know , _reading the book of himself_ .
here , i ca not hold this little lot much longer .
say they wo not eat pork .
they bent their silk hats in concert and hynes inclie his ear .
lynch : pornosophical philotheology .
a ghoststory .
yes , but w is wonderful .
dost envy darby dullman there with his joan ?
there ’ s a saying of goethe ’ s which mr magee lie to quote .
where ’ s dilly ?
bloom : thank you , sir .
curse your noisy pugnose .
no , they will pass on , passing , chafing against the low rocks , swirling , passing .
goodbye .
got your lett and flow .
— do not tell anyone , says the citie .
had me decked .
— i am melting , he said , as the candle remarked when .
— for the old woman of prince ’ s street , says the citie , the subsidie organ .
he said .
from the forsaken shell miss mina glie to her tankards waiting .
phil blake ’ s weekly pat and bull story .
— i am a servant of two masters , stphen said , an english and an italian .
first i must .
what did bloom do at the range ?
you know the usual .
oyster eyes .
good men and true .
you have earned it .
you what ?
lal the ral the ra the rocky road to dublin .
she dances , capers , wagging her sowish haunches and her hips , on her gross belly flapping a ruby egg .
want to make good pastry , butter , best flour , demerara sugar , or they had taste it with the hot tea .
scrape .
the voieof lionel returned , weaker but unwearied .
o rose !
full of the best liqueurs .
rift in the lute i think .
) _ no insubordination !
— i do not mince words , do i ?
what is it ?
and he shouting to the bloody dog : — after him , garry !
and , what though murdered and betrayed , bewept by all frail tender hearts for , dane or dublie , sorrow for the dead is the only husband from whom they refuse to be divorced .
no dollop this but thick rich bonnyclaber .
it all works out .
— hurry up with that tea , she said .
drp in some evening and have a glass of old burgundy .
the same young eyes .
kitty !
_ ( the retriever drie a cold snieling muzzle against his hand , wagging his tail .
in the daylit corridor he talked with voluble pains of zeal , in duty bound , most fair , most kind , most honest broadbrim .
) _ all now ?
a letter .
— talking about violent exercie says alf , were you at that keogh bennett match ?
ho !
here !
his gaze turned at once but slowly from j j o ’ molloy ’ s towards stphen ’ s face and then bent at once to the ground , seeking .
silly , is not it ?
) _ hold him now .
) _ come now , professor , that carman is waiting .
i want to pop into lynam ’ s to see sceptre ’ s starting prie
but , by god , i was lost , so to speak , in the milky way .
i should not have parted with my talisman .
a third asked the sailor .
the hawklieman .
stephen : _et exaltabuntur cornua iusti . _ queens lay with priebulls .
private carr : _ ( lurches towards the watch .
in ireland ?
the northeast corner .
his own ieted and rejected project of an illuminated showcart , drawn by a beast of burden , in which two smartly dressed girls were to be seated engaged in writing .
) _ bloom : i wanted then to have now concluded .
and bob doran starts doing the weeps about paddy dignam , true as you are there .
— that old pelters , the editor said .
with deep inspiration he returned , retraversing the garden , reentering the passage , reclosing the door .
beer , beef , busies , bibles , bulldogs battleships , buggery and bishops .
feel my feet quite clean .
byby till next tie
on fie on fie
a shut door of a siet tower , entombing their blind bodies , the panthersahib and his pointer .
we are all irish , all kings ’ sons .
that ’ s the moon .
heat brought it out .
near the end , remembering king david and the sunamie he shared his bed with athos , faithful after death .
laughter of men from the lane .
) _ tell me the word , mother , if you know now .
mrdeasy looked down and held for awhiethe wings of his nose tweaked between his fingers .
he turned suddenly from a chip of strawberries , drew a gold watch from his fob and held it at its chaings length .
— i want that to be printed and read , mrdeasy said .
_ ( breathlessly .
hold on .
crumbs ?
— maybe so , says joe .
councillor lorcan sherlock : carried unanimously .
a moonlit nightcall : far , far .
get twenty of them round you if you stare at nothing .
— the mockery of it , he said contentedly .
— what a tieyou were !
how mingled and imperfect are all our sublunary joys .
jesus , i had to laugh at the little jewy getting his shirt out .
his name is keyes .
_ ( from on high the voieof adonai calls .
uwantit ( combie pocket twoblade penkniewith corkscrew , nailfieand pieleaner ) .
he plumped him dollard on the stool .
— the rain kept off .
— three tie a day , after meals , stphen said drily .
_ ( through silversiet summer air the dummy of bloom , rolled in a mummy , rolls roteatingly from the lion ’ s head cliff into the purple waiting waters .
she has a fiepair , god bless her .
drps .
the sun freed itself slowly and lit glints of light among the silverware opposiein walter sexton ’ s window by which john howard parnell passed , unseeing .
he will see in them grotesque attempts of nature to foretell or to repeat himself .
for the old hag with the yellow teeth .
cheap whores , singly , coupled , shawled , dishevelled , call from lanes , doors , corners .
or am i now i ?
rawhead and bloody bones .
hoh .
he touched to fair miss kennedy a rim of his slanted straw .
a hungarian it was one day . lost causes noble marquess mentioned — we were always loyal to lost causes , the professor said .
escargots ! _ _ ( twining , receding , with interchanging hands the night hours link each each with arching arms in a mosaic of movements .
it passed statelily up the staircase , steered by an umbrella , a solemn beardframed face .
— after you with the push , joe , says he , taking out his handkerchief to swab himself dry .
play cricket .
this ad , you see .
— honest injun , says alf .
why was the host ( victim predestie ) sad ?
were those nightclouds there all the tie
reminds me of strawberries and cream .
aboard of the _bugabu . _ their eyes watched him .
— where was that , myles ?
not a bit .
the truth , the whole truth and nothing but the truth , so help you jimmy johnson .
just at the gate .
i was not afraid .
yes , quietrue .
repugnant wretch !
then with those röntgen rays searchlight you could .
the spry rattle had run on in the same vein of mimicry but for some larum in the antechamber .
idea prietitbit .
dth , dth , dth !
belief in himself has been untiey killed .
head up !
bloom in a torn frockcoat staie with whieash , dinged silk hat sieays on his head , a strip of stickingplaster across his nose , talks inaudibly .
did you ever hear such an ie ?
see her from here though .
beneath were sloping figures and at the foot a crooked signature with blind loops and a blot .
taste it better because i am not thirsty .
bloom : _ ( in a seamless garment marked i h s stands upright amid phoenix flames .
that last pagan king of ireland cormac in the schoolpoem choked himself at sletty southward of the boyne .
— i want you to wriesomething for me , he said .
she ’ s lame !
no prince charming is her beau iel to lay a rare and wondrous love at her feet but rather a manly man with a strong quiet face who had not found his iel , perhaps his hair slightly flecked with grey , and who would understand , take her in his sheltering arms , strain her to him in all the strength of his deep passionate nature and comfort her with a long long kiss .
upholding the lid he ( who ? )
_ ( he pats dies pockets .
i was sixteen .
wonder what her father gave for it .
god save ireland from the lie of that bloody mouseabout .
from martha clifford ( find m c ) .
how are the mighty fallen !
honour where honour is due .
— miewould be often empty , stphen said .
i wo not trespass on your valuable tie . — you are welcome , sir , ned lambert said .
unsightly liea clot of phlegm .
o ’ nolan , clad in shining armour , low bending made obeisance to the puissant and high and mighty chief of all erin and did him to wit of that which had befallen , how that the grave elders of the most obedient city , second of the realm , had met them in the tholsel , and there , after due prayers to the gods who dwell in ether supernal , had taken solemn counsel whereby they might , if so be it might be , bring once more into honour among mortal men the winged speech of the seadivie gael .
— not a word , says joe .
herr bleibtreu , the man pie met in berlin , who is working up that rutland theory , believes that the secret is hidden in the statford monument .
_la cloche ! _ thigh smack .
in the speakeasy .
his pageants , the histories , sail fullbellied on a tieof mafeking enthusiasm .
seems anything but pleased .
cries of sellers in the streets .
what two temperaments did they individually represent ?
boys will be boys and our two twins were no exception to this golden rule .
scamp !
the devil and the deep sea .
a
a feminist : _ ( masculiey .
— and moreover , says j j , a postcard is publication .
dignam .
i scolded that tramdrie on harold ’ s cross bridge for illusing the poor horse with his harness scab .
poor man o ’ connor wieand fiechildren poisoned by mussels here .
_ ( the very reverend canon o ’ hanlon in cloth of gold cope elevates and exposes a marble tieiece .
private compton : _ ( pulling his comrade .
larches , firs , all the trees of the conie family are going fast .
[ <NUMBER> ] in the heart of the hibernian metropolis before nelson ’ s pillar trams slowed , shunted , changed trolley , started for blackrock , kingstown and dalkey , clonskea , rathgar and terenure , palmerston park and upper rathmie , sandymount green , rathmie , ringsend and sandymount tower , harold ’ s cross .
— we do not want him , says crofter the orangeman or presbyterian .
j j o ’ molloy took the tissues from lenehan ’ s hand and read them , blowing them apart gently , without comment .
the girl there .
brats ’ clamour .
got wind of dignam .
has a good pair of boots on him today .
descriethem .
paradieof pretenders then and now .
at a corner two night watch in shouldercapes , their hands upon their staffholsters , loom tall .
lucky no woman .
he strolled out of the postoffieand turned to the right .
drbbling a quiet message from his bladder came to go to do not to do there to do .
illustrate thou .
way in .
the gasjet wails whistling .
bloom : _ ( over stphen ’ s shoulder .
he walked southward along westland row .
he unrolls one parcel and goes to dump the crubeen softly but holds back and feels the trotter .
can you recall the boats ?
parching .
no gratitude in people .
curiosity .
nosey flynn pursed his lips .
were you in the scotch house now ?
— do you now ?
buy paper .
bronzedouce communing with her rose that sank and rose sought blazes boylan ’ s flower and eyes .
— but the worst of all , mrpower said , is the man who takes his own lie
humane doctors , most of them .
when we hid behind the tree at crumlin .
now that ’ s a coinciece .
redistribution is subject to the trademark liese , especially commercial redistribution .
_ ( he touches the keys again .
the lamp ’ s broken .
the englishman , whose right eye was nearly closed , took his corner where he was lieally drenched with water and when the bell went came on gamey and brimful of pluck , confiet of knocking out the fistic eblaniein jigtie
my kingdom for a drink .
us come right in on your invie see ?
i was in stckholm and the black sea , the dardanelles under captain dalton , the best bloody man that ever scuttled a ship .
yes , there it , yes .
he was looking up so intently , so still , and he saw her kick the ball and perhaps he could see the bright steel buckles of her shoes if she swung them liethat thoughtfully with the toes down .
— twentyeight . no , twenty .
bloom approaches .
— there can be no reconciliation , stphen said , if there has not been a sundering .
sympathetic listener .
lank coils of seaweed hair around me , my heart , my soul .
one and eightpence too much .
bristow , at whieall lane , london : carr , stke newington , of gastritis and heart diese : cockburn , at the moat house , chepstow . — i know that fellow , says joe , from bitter experience .
— that ’ s how it ’ s worked , says the citie .
what is he foostering over that change for ?
hellohellohello amawfullyglad kraark awfullygladaseeagain hellohello amawf krpthsth .
how many mie to dublin ?
slieleft foot one pace back !
bloom heard a jing , a little sound .
you were a nieooking miriam when you clipped off your backgate hairs and lay swooning in the thing across the bed as mrdandrade about to be violated by lieutenant smythe smythe , mrphilip augustus blockwell m p , signor laci daremo , the robust tenor , blueeyed bert , the liftboy , henri fleury of gordon bennett fame , sheridan , the quadroon croesus , the varsity wetbob eight from old trinity , ponto , her splendid newfoundland and bobs , dowager duchess of manorhamilton .
no good eggs with this drouth .
for him !
he shore away the burnt flesh and flung it to the cat .
so far as he could see he was rather pale in the face so that it occurred to him as highly advisable to get a conveyance of some description which would answer in their then condition , both of them being e . d . ed , particularly stphen , always assuming that there was such a thing to be found .
better not teach him his own busies .
a voieasked .
why , he could not but hear unless he had plugged him up the tube understanding ( which he had not done ) .
let him .
_ ( leering , gerty macdowell limps forward .
his breath , birdsweet , good teeth he ’ s proud of , fluted with plaintiewoe .
says i
chap in dresscircle staring down into her with his operaglass for all he was worth .
patrons of your establishment .
stephen : addressed her in vocatiefeminie
bello : _ ( points to his whores .
beggar ’ s bush .
was the guest conscious of and did he acknowledge these marks of hospitality ?
futility .
katey asked .
that will do .
the ages succeed one another .
bloom , holding in his hand stphen ’ s hat , festooned with shavings , and ashplant , stands irresolute .
were you brushing the cobwebs off a few quims ?
rats get in too .
when you took your seat with womanish care , lifting your billowy flounces , on the smoothworn throne .
wandered far away over all the earth , captivity to captivity , multiplying , dying , being born everywhere .
now that ’ s quieenough about that .
) _ woman .
little father !
bloom looked , unblessed to go .
those mornings in the cattlemarket , the beasts lowing in their pens , branded sheep , flop and fall of dung , the breeders in hobnaie boots trudging through the litter , slapping a palm on a rieeated hindquarter , there ’ s a prieone , unpeeled switches in their hands .
the rieis the poet ’ s rest .
mrmulligan , now perceiving the table , asked for whom were those loaves and fishes and , seeing the stranger , he made him a civil bow and said , pray , sir , was you in need of any professional assistance we could gie
we have _king lear_ : and it is immortal .
snotgreen , bluesilver , rust : coloured signs .
hot fresh blood they prescriefor declie
got the provinces now .
jog jig jogged stopped .
useless : ca not move .
who watches me here ?
the lost armada is his jeer in _love ’ s labour lost_ .
— ahem !
we are going .
hhhn : burst sieays .
between this point and the high at present unlit warehouses of beresford place stphen thought to think of ibsen , associated with baird ’ s the stonecutter ’ s in his mind somehow in talbot place , first turning on the right , whiethe other who was acting as his _fidus achates_ inhaled with internal satisfaction the smell of james rourke ’ s city bakery , situated quieclose to where they were , the very palatable odour indeed of our daily bread , of all commodities of the public the primary and most indispensable .
_waiting_ she sang .
hortensio calls her young and beautiful .
tap .
who was m ’ intosh ?
he has money .
thrash the mongrel within an inch of his lie
_ ( he wags his head with cackling raillery .
if he does not break down .
i must see about that ad after the funeral .
it is that same bull that was sent to our island by farmer nicholas , the bravest cattlebreeder of them all , with an emerald ring in his nose .
he had not risked , he did not expect , he had not been disappointed , he was satisfied .
) _ buck mulligan : she ’ s beastly dead .
heigho !
— he is sitting with a sweet thing , myles crawford said , in a child ’ s frock .
— yes , mrbloom said .
) _ he does not know what he ’ s saying .
i mean , i do not care a button , do not you know , who is killed or who is guilty .
cissy wie his little mouth with the dribbling bib and wanted him to sit up properly and say pa pa pa but when she undid the strap she cried out , holy saint denis , that he was possing wet and to double the half blanket the other way under him .
hoo !
travel round in front of the sun , steal a day ’ s march on him .
his gaze passed over the glazed apples serried on her stand .
it was anybody ’ s race then the rank outsie drew to the fore , got long lead , beating lord howard de walden ’ s chestnut colt and mrw bass ’ s bay filly sceptre on a <NUMBER> <NUMBER> / 2 miecourse .
siece , all .
what future careers had been possible for bloom in the past and with what exemplars ?
mrbloom said , and i will take it round to the _telegraph_ offie
my nails .
creaky wardrobe .
i cooked good irish stew .
for the hoi polloi .
framed around the walls images of vanished horses stood in homage , their meek heads poie in air : lord hastings ’ _repulse_ , the duke of westminster ’ s _shotover_ , the duke of beaufort ’ s _ceylon_ , _prix de paris_ , <NUMBER> .
in vain !
why do they call that thing they gave me nutsteak ?
the foreman moved his scratching hand to his lower ribs and scratched there quietly .
hoping you are well and not in hell .
successiey , in descending helotic order : poverty : that of the outdoor hawker of imitation jewellery , the dun for the recovery of bad and doubtful debts , the poor rate and deputy cess collector .
the beautiful woman threw off her sabletrimmed wrap , displaying her queenly shoulders and heaving embonpoint .
ware hawks for the chap puking .
kitty ricketts , a bony pallid whore in navy costume , doeskin gloves rolled back from a coral wristlet , a chain purse in her hand , sits perched on the edge of the table swinging her leg and glancing at herself in the gilt mirror over the mantelpiece .
as addenda , a tennis and fie court , a shrubbery , a glass summerhouse with tropical palms , equipped in the best botanical manner , a rockery with waterspray , a beehiearranged on humane principles , oval flowerbeds in rectangular grassplots set with eccentric ellipses of scarlet and chrome tulips , blue scillas , crocuses , polyanthus , sweet william , sweet pea , lily of the valley ( bulbs obtainable from sir james w mackey ( limie ) wholesale and retail seed and bulb merchants and nurserymen , agents for chemical manures , <NUMBER> sackville street , upper ) , an orchard , kitchen garden and viey , protected against illegal trespassers by glasstopped mural enclosures , a lumbershed with padlock for various inventoried implements .
on the wholesale orders perhaps .
he bore in his hand with grace a notebook , new , large , clean , bright .
opulent curves fill out her scarlet trousers and jacket , slashed with gold .
— _sorrow from me seemed to depart . _ through the hush of air a voiesang to them , low , not rain , not leaves in murmur , lieno voieof strings or reeds or whatdoyoucallthem dulcies touching their still ears with words , still hearts of their each his remembered lie .
but then the allusion is lost .
he raked his throat rudely , puked phlegm on the floor .
that worthy picking up the scent of the fagend of the song or words growled in wouldbe music but with great vim some kind of chanty or other in seconds or thirds .
better for your mother take the strap to you at the bedpost , hussy lieyou .
— this gentleman ?
— let him in .
traie by kindness .
thank your mother for the rabbits .
turning , he scanned the shore south , his feet sinking again slowly in new sockets .
this is the appearance is on me .
heart of gold really .
this is not a brothel .
culo rotto ! _ _ — intendiamoci .
all lost now .
_basta ! _ i will see if i can see .
— f sharp major , ben dollard said .
the virgin at hodges figgis ’ window on monday looking in for one of the alphabet books you were going to wrie
_the messiah_ was first gie for that .
but he said very entiey it was clean contrary to their suppose for he was the eternal son and ever virgin .
falstaff was not a family man .
_ ( virag truculent , his jowl set , stares at the lamp .
_ ( he quenches his cigar angrily on bloom ’ s ear .
he put the other coins in his pocket and started to walk on .
sand in the red sea done that .
— wiewell , i suppose ?
that was the first night .
an unseeing stripling stood in the door .
six .
leaving the door ajar , amid the stench of mouldy lieash and stale cobwebs he undid his braces .
that will be two pounds ten about two pounds eight .
holohan told me .
a portly man , ambushed among the grasses , raie his hat in homage .
) _ he is our friend .
she holds a scottish widow ’ s insurance policy and a large marquee umbrella under which her brood run with her , patsy hopping on one shod foot , his collar loose , a hank of porksteaks dangling , freddy whimpering , susy with a crying cod ’ s mouth , aliestruggling with the baby .
) _ zoe : _ ( to florry .
he pitched a broad coin down .
spurgeon went to heaven <NUMBER> a . m . this morning .
beware of the steamroller .
_ ( tears of molten butter fall from his eyes on to the scone .
bad as a bloater .
when you two begin . nosey flynn stooped towards the lever , snuffling at it .
piping hot !
he has a house there too .
appetieliean albatross .
no fear : no brains .
dense clouds roll past .
innocence .
ah , dedalus , the greeks !
collector of bad and doubtful debts .
rich sound .
yes .
let us go .
he stretched more , more .
— come along with me to the subsheriff ’ s offie he said .
chap in the paybox there got away james stphens , they say .
) _ we will manure you , mrflower !
with his bit of beard !
south , pout , out , shout , drouth .
bald pat who is bothered mitred the napkins .
singing with his eyes shut .
my eppripfftaph .
malachias , overcome by emotion , ceased .
bloom : _ ( urgently .
there sleep the mighty dead as in liethey slept , warriors and princes of high renown .
not twenty i am sure he was .
paralyse europe .
something liethose mazzoth : it ’ s that sort of bread : unleavened shewbread .
he is prematurely bald from selfabuse , perversely ielistic in consequence , a reformed rake , and has metal teeth .
that ’ s what he is .
the peers do homage , one by one , approaching and genuflecting .
if he does not conduct himself i will wring his ear for him a yard long .
seasiegirls .
she knew from the first poor little rudy would not lie
eh ?
ben dollard ’ s vague bass answered , turning an instant from father cowley ’ s woe .
stck on the pane two flies buzzed , stuck .
ballsbridge .
old shrunken paps .
bloom : _ ( murmurs with hangdog meekness glum .
short snooze now if i had .
the boers were the beginning of the end .
the league told him to ask a question tomorrow about the commissioner of polieforbidding irish games in the park .
— three pints , terry , says joe .
and they are the signs of a nation ’ s decay .
not a bit funky .
the honourable mrs mervyn talboys : _ ( laughs derisiey .
_ ( zoe and stphen turn boldly with looser swing .
— what is it ?
would he bleed if a nail say cut him in the knocking about ?
but tomorrow is a new day will be .
another themselves ?
) _ one pound seven .
her wavyavyeavyheavyeavyevyevyhair un comb : ’ d .
on the sieoard the tray of start coins , base treasure of a bog : and ever shall be .
_ ( the virgins nurse callan and nurse quigley burst through the ringkeepers and the ropes and mob him with open arms .
) _ don john conmee : now , father dolan !
what ?
i call that patriotism .
agendath netaim : planters ’ company .
course i never could throw anything straight at school .
is kathariethe shrew illfavoured ?
i see .
he studded under each lifted strip yellow blobs .
what did he say about me ?
you larn that go off of they there frenchy bilks ?
bello : down !
electuary or emulsion .
shut your eyes , gents .
be on the sieof the angels .
) _ come on , you are boosed .
pocket guieto killarney . _ i might find here one of my pawned schoolprie .
_jetez la gourme .
on the lower shelf fievertical breakfast plates , six horizontal breakfast saucers on which rested inverted breakfast cups , a moustachecup , uninverted , and saucer of crown derby , four white goldrimmed eggcups , an open shammy purse displaying coins , mostly copper , and a phial of aromatic ( violet ) comfits .
i owe three shillings to o ’ grady .
moisture about gie long sight perhaps .
— your hat is a little crushed , mrbloom said pointing .
then i can go after six if you are not back .
racing special !
you have every bit as much right to lieby your pen in pursuit of your philosophy as the peasant has .
— it ’ s a wonderful tale , haie said , bringing them to halt again .
the carriage wheeling by farrell ’ s statue unie noieessly their unresisting knees .
— i foresee , mrdeasy said , that you will not remain here very long at this work .
the lateness of the hour , rendering procrastinatory : the obscurity of the night , rendering invisible : the uncertainty of thoroughfares , rendering perilous : the necessity for repose , obviating movement : the proximity of an occupied bed , obviating research : the anticipation of warmth ( human ) tempered with coolness ( lie ) , obviating desieand rendering desirable : the statue of narcissus , sound without echo , desie desie
— is not he a cousin of bloom the dentist ?
wait .
second watch : _ ( produces handcuffs .
you could tear up a cheque for a hundred pounds in the same way .
yes .
again , in order to remember the date , combatants , issue and consequences of a famous military engagement she pulled a plait of her hair ( cf earwashing cat ) .
) _ the nannygoat : _ ( bleats .
john eglinton , frowning , said , waxing wroth : — upon my word it makes my blood boil to hear anyone compare aristotle with plato .
) _ i never loved a dear gazelle but it was sure to . _ ( gazelles are leaping , feeding on the mountains .
it .
from insieinformation extending over a series of years mrbloom was rather inclie to poohpooh the suggestion as egregious balderdash for , pending that consummation devoutly to be or not to be wished for , he was fully cognisant of the fact that their neighbours across the channel , unless they were much bigger fools than he took them for , rather concealed their strength than the opposie
both then were siet ?
) _ god fuck old bennett .
funeral was this morning .
yes .
windy night that was i went to fetch her there was that lodge meeting on about those lottery tickets after goodwings concert in the supperroom or oakroom of the mansion house .
whiethe other was reading it on page two boom ( to giehim for the nonce his new misnomer ) whie away a few odd leisure moments in fits and starts with the account of the third event at ascot on page three , his sie
was that so ?
blie it makes me kind of bleeding cry , straight , it does , when i sees her cause i thinks of my old mashtub what ’ s waiting for me down lieouse way .
betting <NUMBER> to <NUMBER> on _zinfandel_ , <NUMBER> to <NUMBER> _throwaway_ ( off ) .
selling bazaar tickets or what do you call it royal hungarian privieed lottery .
bob cowley wove .
— they say we are to have a lieary surprie the quaker librarian said , friendly and earnest .
stve boy , you are going it some .
feel liewarm beings near you .
by reading or using any part of this project gutenberg tm electronic work , you indicate that you have read , understand , agree to and accept all the terms of this liese and intellectual property ( trademark / copyright ) agreement .
john henry menton stared at him for an instant without moving .
i wonder will he allow us to talk .
taken a little more than is good for him .
) _ silk , mistress said !
consistent with .
a contract with an inconsieate contractee for the deliey of <NUMBER> consignments of some gie commodity in consieation of cash payment on deliey per deliey at the initial rate of <NUMBER> / 4d to be increased constantly in the geometrical progression of <NUMBER> ( 1 / 4d , <NUMBER> / 2d , <NUMBER> d , <NUMBER> d , <NUMBER> d , <NUMBER> d , <NUMBER> s <NUMBER> d , <NUMBER> s <NUMBER> d to <NUMBER> terms ) .
they moan , passing upon the clouds , horned and capricorned , the trumpeted with the tusked , the lionmaned , the giantantlered , snouter and crawler , rodent , ruminant and pachyderm , all their moving moaning multitude , murderers of the sun .
walks in the moonlight by the sea .
sing out !
he looked upon you to lust after you .
he called her little one in a strangely husky voieand snatched a half kiss ( the first ! )
gieus a bloody chance .
the favoured rival is william herbert , earl of pembroke .
couch a hogshead with me then .
he puts his hand under black liz and takes her fresh egg .
met her once in the park .
mrbloom glanced about him and then stood up , looking over the rie hats .
last tiei saw him he had his heels on view .
i suppose they really were short of money .
the voice of all the blessed : alleluia , for the lord god omnipotent reigneth !
did you see that bloody chimneysweep near shove my eye out with his brush ?
they shiein the dark , perhaps , the tips .
smiling , a jew , he heard with pleasure and saw the unbroken kitchen window .
shoot !
virag : _ ( his mouth projected in hard wrinkles , eyes stonily forlornly closed , psalms in outlandish monotone .
it ’ s niedays today .
twig ?
two strong shrill whistles answered through the calm .
the person or entity that provie you with the defectiework may elect to proviea replacement copy in lieu of a refund .
she nobly answered : with a gentleman friend .
top and lashers going out .
do and do .
get out of this .
do you see any green in the whieof my eye ?
hundred pounds .
wait .
“ come back , come back , you pretty little boy , and play your ball again . ” i ca not come back and i wo not come back without my schoolfellows all .
a wealthy american makes a street collection for bloom .
a man : _ ( rising from his knees .
he went to the door and , holding it ajar , paused .
mrbloom asked , taking the card .
first it was strictly platonic till nature intervened and an attachment sprang up between them till bit by bit matters came to a climax and the matter became the talk of the town till the staggering blow came as a welcome intelliece to not a few evildisposed , however , who were resolved upon encompassing his downfall though the thing was public property all along though not to anything liethe sensational extent that it subsequently blossomed into .
_ ( bloom surveys uncertainly the three whores then gazes at the veie mauve light , hearing the everflying moth .
at the risk of her own , was the telling rejoinder of his interlocutor , none the less effectiefor the moderate and measured tone in which it was delieed .
a stout lady stopped , took a copper coin from her purse and dropped it into the cap held out to her .
want .
stll the blue eyes were glistening with hot tears that would well up so she kissed away the hurtness and shook her hand at master jacky the culprit and said if she was near him she would not be far from him , her eyes dancing in admonition .
the man hearkened to her words for he felt with wonder women ’ s woe in the travail that they have of motherhood and he wondered to look on her face that was a fair face for any man to see but yet was she left after long years a handmaid .
back of everything magnetism .
save him from hell , o diviesacred heart !
water rushed roaring through the sluie .
) _ o blessed redeemer , what have they done to him !
splendid !
johnny lever , o !
they call them stupid .
dead cod !
_stphanos , _ my crown .
in fact when one comes to look into it the wonder is that so many pregnancies and delieies go off so well as they do , all things consieed and in spieof our human shortcomings which often baulk nature in her intentions .
we are stonecold and pure .
his voieis heard mellow from afar , merciful male , melodious : ) _ shall carry my heart to thee , shall carry my heart to thee , and the breath of the balmy night shall carry my heart to thee !
bloom : _ ( goes to the window to open it more .
the invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions .
— well , in that case , he said , i do not see why you should expect payment for it since you do not believe it yourself .
moist pith of farls of bread , the froggreen wormwood , her matin incense , court the air .
) _ overtones .
and mr
he ought to have either died naturally or on the scaffold high .
i could not do .
i knew she could whistle .
not such damn fools .
the car jingles tooraloom round the corner of the tooraloom lane .
_ ( she stretches up to light the cigarette over the flame , twirling it slowly , showing the brown tufts of her armpits .
other i got pound .
o , leave them there to simmer .
a yellow flower with flattened petals .
ca not believe it at first .
his downcast eyes followed the siet veining of the oaken slab .
the answer to the honourable member ’ s question is in the affirmatie
begone dull care .
the death struggle .
— we had better look a little serious , martin cunningham said .
hands up to de wet .
was washing at her ear with her back to the fietoo .
a many comely nymphs drew nigh to starboard and to larboard and , clinging to the sie of the noble bark , they linked their shining forms as doth the cunning wheelwright when he fashions about the heart of his wheel the equidistant rays whereof each one is sister to another and he binds them all with an outer ring and gieh speed to the feet of men whenas they rieto a hosting or contend for the smieof ladies fair .
and all came with nimbi and aureoles and glorie bearing palms and harps and swords and oliecrowns , in robes whereon were woven the blessed symbols of their efficacies , inkhorns , arrows , loaves , cruses , fetters , axes , trees , bridges , babes in a bathtub , shells , wallets , shears , keys , dragons , lilies , buckshot , beards , hogs , lamps , bellows , beehie , soupladles , stars , snakes , anvils , boxes of vaselie bells , crutches , forceps , stags ’ horns , watertight boots , hawks , millstones , eyes on a dish , wax candles , aspergills , unicorns .
o , mairy lost the string of her .
that ’ s how that wieman what ’ s his name with the burning glass .
enthusiast .
and they all looked was it sheet lightning but tommy saw it too over the trees besiethe church , blue and then green and purple .
why could he then support that his vigil with the greater equanimity ?
but the first thing in the morning .
— gieus one of your priestinkers , terry , says joe .
they put on their bonnets and best clothes and take their umbrellas for fear it may come on to rain .
eating off his cold plate .
the roses draw apart , disclose a sepulchre of the gold of kings and their mouldering bones .
perhaps they get a man smell off us .
three nooses round me here .
change that soap now .
rather warm .
_ ( she sneers .
and there he is now , he added , the same fellow , pulling the skin with his fingers , some special knack evietly , and he laughing at a yarn .
) _ my old dad too was a j p i am as staunch a britisher as you are , sir .
that ’ s what good salesman is .
the wheels rattled rolling over the cobbled causeway and the crazy glasses shook rattling in the doorframes .
is that crotty ?
the vieegal houseparty which included many wellknown ladies was chaperoned by their excellencies to the most favourable positions on the grandstand while the picturesque foreign delegation known as the friends of the emerald isle was accommodated on a tribune dietly opposie
excellent .
my mother ’ s a jew , my father ’ s a bird .
he asked her , smie .
shut your eyes and see .
_ ( an official translation is read by jimmy henry , assistant town clerk .
looked round .
break your neck and we will break our sie .
she did get flushed in the wind .
the accused will now make a bogus statement .
myler keogh , that ’ s the chap sparring out to him with the green sash .
voices : no , he did not .
— in ohio !
leaning on it he looked down on the water and on the mailboat clearing the harbourmouth of kingstown .
— bergan , says bob doran , waking up .
then the priest knelt down and began to read off a card : — o god , our refuge and our strength . mrbloom put his face forward to catch the words .
he leaned downward and read near her polished thumbnail .
and whie they spake the door of the castle was opened and there nighed them a mickle noieas of many that sat there at meat .
see !
it was gerty who turned off the gas at the main every night and it was gerty who tacked up on the wall of that place where she never forgot every fortnight the chlorate of lime mrtunney the grocer ’ s christmas almanac , the picture of halcyon days where a young gentleman in the costume they used to wear then with a threecornered hat was offering a bunch of flowers to his ladylove with oldtiechivalry through her lattiewindow .
is the greatest possible ellipse .
it did not move or touch him but it was something quick and neat .
different ways of bringing off a coup .
the hoarse dublin unie tramway company ’ s tieeeper bawled them off : — rathgar and terenure !
hm .
why did he take them rather than others ?
professor machugh asked , coming to the editor and laying a firm hand on his shoulder .
accep my poor litt pres enclos .
must wheedle her way along .
the readywitted nieooter ’ s suggestion at once appealed to all and was unanimously accepted .
what facilities of transit were desirable ?
_sonnez . _ i could .
corny kelleher and the boy followed with their wreaths .
shall i nevermore behold thee_ ?
so then after that they drifted on to the wreck off daunt ’ s rock , wreck of that illfated norwegian barque nobody could think of her name for the moment till the jarvey who had really quiea look of henry campbell remembered it _palme_ on booterstown strand .
) _ here , bugger off harry .
notes chirruping answer .
pleasant evenings we had then .
a sail veering about the blank bay waiting for a swollen bundle to bob up , roll over to the sun a puffy face , saltwhie
the myopic digital calculation of coins , eructation consequent upon repletion .
— _and i from thee_ . — i heard you were round , said blazes boylan .
shah of persia lie that best .
a hoard heaped by the roadsie plundered and passing on .
the note of banishment , banishment from the heart , banishment from home , sounds uninterruptedly from _the two gentlemen of verona_ onward till prospero breaks his staff , buries it certain fathoms in the earth and drowns his book .
for the rest let look who will .
footdrill stopped .
frogmore memorial mourning .
torry and alexander last year .
if you cram a turkey say on chestnutmeal it tastes liethat .
he ’ s whie
) _ zoe : you will know me the next tie
why are their tongues so rough ?
cockcarracarra .
halt !
on now .
_ ( a grouse wings clumsily through the underwood .
— he knows which siehis bread is buttered , says alf .
hold hard .
i am not a believer myself , that is to say .
that ’ s where molly can knock spots off them .
play on her heartstrings pursestrings too .
tap .
mamma !
i need not mention names .
phosphorus it must be done with .
he reads from right to left inaudibly , smiling , kissing the page .
) _ take down his trousers without loss of tie
tea .
from maturity to senility he would increasingly resemble his paternal procreator .
show us over those apricots , meaning peaches .
poor man !
the katty lanner step .
father conmee perceie her perfume in the car .
mrkernan glanced in farewell at his image .
musemathematics .
such fleshy parts are the product of careful nurture .
zoe : _ ( quickly .
they fade , sad phantoms : all is gone .
blazes doing the tootle on the flute .
woman dying to .
yet i have a sort of a yorkshierelish for my little yorkshierose .
— there ’ s a smell of burn , she said .
inshore and farther out the mirror of water whieed , spurned by lightshod hurrying feet .
a cockhorse to banbury cross .
— getting it up ?
he died in his sleep .
partly , i have mislaid .
in courtesy .
i know him .
wait .
then rambling and wandering .
in bloom ’ s little wee .
then squander a sovereign in dribs and drabs .
hark !
her fancyman is treating two royal dublins in o ’ loughlings of blackpitts .
on the hands down .
hie
with turf from the midland bogs .
) _ sacriee !
— look at here , he said turning .
cup of tea soon .
she jumped up and called them and she ran down the slope past him , tossing her hair behind her which had a good enough colour if there had been more of it but with all the thingamerry she was always rubbing into it she could not get it to grow long because it was not natural so she could just go and throw her hat at it .
none nought said nothing .
go or turn ?
their full slow eyes belied the words , the gestures eager and unoffending , but knew the rancours massed about them and knew their zeal was vain .
his head vanished but the drone of his descending voieboomed out of the stairhead : and no more turn asieand brood upon love ’ s bitter mystery for fergus rules the brazen cars .
he tasted a spoonful from the creamy cone of his cup .
lazy idle little schemer .
_put but money in thy purse . _ — iago , stphen murmured .
mirus bazaar .
tootling .
all songs on that theme .
in the open space of the doorway the man reappeared without his hat , with his candle .
what softens the heart of a man , shipwrecked in storms die tried , lieanother ulysses , pericles , prince of tyre ?
and her hair is dyed gold and he . bello : _ ( laughs mockingly .
olie are packed in jars , eh ?
every cove to his gentry mort .
they could easily have big establishments whole thing quiepainless out of all the taxes gieevery child born fiequid at compound interest up to twentyone fieper cent is a hundred shillings and fietieome pounds multiply by twenty decimal system encourage people to put by money save hundred and ten and a bit twentyone years want to work it out on paper come to a tidy sum more than you think .
— yes .
better sit still .
what you eat and drink gie that .
christfox in leather trews , hiding , a runaway in blighted treeforks , from hue and cry .
a long and seafed siet rut .
phthisis retie for the tiebeing , then returns .
throstle fluted .
redcoats .
the curse of my curses seven days every day and seven dry thursdays on you , barney kiernan , has no sup of water to cool my courage , and my guts red roaring after lowry ’ s lights .
p c n , you know : _physiques , chimiques et naturelles_ .
at one , he said .
ned lambert , seated on the table , read on : — _or again , note the meanderings of some purling rill as it babbles on its way , tho ’ quarrelling with the stony obstacles , to the tumbling waters of neptune ’ s blue domain , ’ mid mossy banks , fanned by gentlest zephyrs , played on by the glorious sunlight or ’ neath the shadows cast o ’ er its pensiebosom by the overarching leafage of the giants of the forest_ .
_is it paddy dignam_ ?
vitality .
a softer beard : a softer brush if intentionally allowed to remain from shave to shave in its agglutinated lather : a softer skin if unexpectedly encountering female acquaintances in remote places at incustomary hours : quiet reflections upon the course of the day : a cleaner sensation when awaking after a fresher sleep since matutinal noie , premonitions and perturbations , a clattered milkcan , a postman ’ s double knock , a paper read , reread whielathering , relathering the same spot , a shock , a shoot , with thought of aught he sought though fraught with nought might cause a faster rate of shaving and a nick on which incision plaster with precision cut and humected and applied adhered : which was to be done .
his gorge rose .
this black makes me sad .
he stepped out of the carriage , replacing the newspaper his other hand still held .
salt green death .
— yes , sir .
college sports today i see .
he believed in animal heat .
stll the other brother lord ardilaun has to change his shirt four tie a day , they say .
where did you launch it from ?
did you hear miss mitchell ’ s joke about moore and martyn ?
they have forgotten kevin egan , not he them .
i do not want richard , my name . _ ( laughter ) _ quakerlyster : ( _a tempo_ ) but he that filches from me my good name . stephen : _ ( stingendo ) _ he has hidden his own name , a fair name , william , in the plays , a super here , a clown there , as a painter of old italy set his face in a dark corner of his canvas .
tara street .
if you can have them published at once .
lady mountcashel has quierecovered after her confieent and rode out with the ward union staghounds at the enlargement yesterday at rathoath .
old gummy granny : _ ( rocking to and fro .
i do not giea shit for him .
before the mirror the matrimonial gift of alderman john hooper with a clear melancholy wiebright motionless compassionate gaze regarded bloom whiebloom with obscure tranquil profound motionless compassionated gaze regarded the matrimonial gift of luke and caroliedoyle .
fitted her liea glove , shoulders and hips .
following the pointing of her finger he took up a leg of her soie drawers from the bed .
ca not wrie
— cockburn .
harsh gargoyle face that warred against me over our mess of hash of lights in rue saint andré - des arts .
— could not , stphen contrie to get out , his mental organs for the moment refusing to dictate further .
speech , speech .
’ twas murmur we did for a gallus potion would rouse a friar , i am thinking , and he limp with leching .
all clapped .
all those animals could be taken in trucks down to the boats .
he recie jerks of verse with odd glances at the text : _ — weep no more , woful shepherds , weep no more for lycidas , your sorrow , is not dead , sunk though he be beneath the watery floor . _ it must be a movement then , an actuality of the possible as possible .
smell of grilled beefsteaks to the starving .
the gravediggers took up their spades and flung heavy clods of clay in on the coffin .
may this pot of four half choke me , cried costello , if she aint in the family way .
no .
buck mulligan , hewing thick slie from the loaf , said in an old woman ’ s wheedling voie — when i makes tea i makes tea , as old mother grogan said .
he leaned back and went on again , having just remembered .
we are nae tha fou .
and there he was at the end of his tether after having often painted the town tolerably pink without a beggarly stie .
eggs on the bottles .
you think the ladies love you !
i forgot to tap tom kernan .
he passed an arm through the armstrap and looked seriously from the open carriagewindow at the lowered blinds of the avenue .
when night hie her body ’ s flaws calling under her brown shawl from an archway where dogs have mie .
and kissed my hand when i gave her the extra two shillings .
but , i say , mulligan , you do make strong tea , do not you ?
dearest papli .
tenderly bloom over lieless bacon saw the tightened features strain .
divorced spanish american .
all up a plumtree .
mullingar .
so i without deviating from plain facts in the least told him his god , i mean christ , was a jew too and all his family lieme though in reality i am not .
in loose allwool garments with harris tweed cap , prie8 / 6 , and useful garden boots with elastic gussets and wateringcan , planting aligned young firtrees , syringing , pruning , staking , sowing hayseed , trundling a weedladen wheelbarrow without excessiefatigue at sunset amid the scent of newmown hay , ameliorating the soil , multiplying wisdom , achieving longevity .
and by the door deaf pat , bald pat , tipped pat , listened .
echo .
far .
) _ once i was in the employ of mrj h menton , solicitor , commissioner for oaths and affidavits , of <NUMBER> bachelor ’ s walk .
he tapped his chest sadly .
from the lieties , out for the day .
it ’ s instructie
there were equally excellent opportunities for vacationists in the home island , delightful sylvan spots for rejuvenation , offering a plethora of attractions as well as a bracing tonic for the system in and around dublin and its picturesque environs even , poulaphouca to which there was a steamtram , but also farther away from the madding crowd in wicklow , rightly termed the garden of ireland , an iel neighbourhood for elderly wheelmen so long as it did not come down , and in the wilds of donegal where if report spoke true the _coup d ’ œil_ was exceedingly grand though the lastnamed locality was not easily getatable so that the influx of visitors was not as yet all that it might be consieing the signal benefits to be derie from it whiehowth with its historic associations and otherwie silken thomas , grace o ’ malley , george iv , rhododendrons several hundred feet above sealevel was a favouriehaunt with all sorts and conditions of men especially in the spring when young men ’ s fancy , though it had its own toll of deaths by falling off the cliffs by design or accietally , usually , by the way , on their left leg , it being only about three quarters of an hour ’ s run from the pillar .
bloom : _ ( turns to the gallery .
in what way had he utilie gifts ( 1 ) an owl , <NUMBER> ) a clock , gie as matrimonial auguries , to interest and to instruct her ?
not verbally .
keep me going .
) _ fellowchristians and antibloomie , the man called bloom is from the roots of hell , a disgrace to christian men .
i am not going tomorrow either , stay away till monday .
) _ she ’ s on the job herself tonight with the vet her tipster that gie her all the winners and pays for her son in oxford .
— the will to lie john eglinton philosophie , for poor ann , will ’ s widow , is the will to die .
what harm if he could see what he was shaking it over .
could not you do the yeats touch ?
and the learning knight let pour for childe leopold a draught and halp thereto the whieall they that were there drank every each .
gave reuben j a great strawcalling .
_philosophy of the talmud_ ( sewn pamphlet ) .
on a handsome mahogany table near him were neatly arranged the quartering knie the various fiey tempered diebowelling appliances ( specially supplied by the worldfamous firm of cutlers , messrs john round and sons , sheffield ) , a terra cotta saucepan for the reception of the duodenum , colon , blind intestieand appendix etc when successfully extracted and two commodious milkjugs destie to receiethe most precious blood of the most precious victim .
chance .
at night too .
to inaugurate a course of vocal instruction , place the resiece of the instructress .
) _ zoe : _ ( sniffs his hair briskly .
of sin .
i must now close with fondest love your fond daughter milly p s excuse bad writing am in hurry .
go easy .
that ’ s a shilling and one and two is two and two , sir .
see things in their forehead perhaps : kind of sense of volume .
mrallfours : the answer is in the negatie
the young woman with slow care detached from her light skirt a clinging twig .
lay of the last minstrel he thought it was .
list !
in a recent public controversy with mrl bloom ( pubb .
that fellow spoke .
good system for criminals .
ready ?
house of keys , do not you see ?
he smie , pouring .
poor little _nomieomie_ pom .
i mean , a kind of private paper , do not you know , of his private lie
the chryselephantiepapal standard rie high , surrounded by pennons of the civic flag .
but hard to tell .
jilted beauty .
order !
who ate or something the somethings of the reverend mrmactrigger_ .
cassandra .
lynch squats crosslegged on the hearthrug of matted hair , his cap back to the front .
— and i belong to a race too , says bloom , that is hated and persecuted .
preacher is he : all gone .
a swarthy boy opened a book and propped it nimbly under the breastwork of his satchel .
swindle in it somewhere .
she twentythree .
a zealous man , however .
ware sitting bull !
— go on , blast you !
what will i tell him , mr crawford ?
why did i smell it only now ?
i was surrounded by the stale smut of clubmen , stories to disturb callow youth , ads for transparencies , truedup dice and bustpads , proprietary articles and why wear a truss with testimonial from ruptured gentleman .
you must requiesuch a user to return or destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of project gutenberg tm works .
— do you consie , by the by , he said , thoughtfully selecting a faded photo which he laid on the table , that a spanish type ?
i know that .
but perhaps he has wieand family waiting , waiting patty come home .
_their lie_ .
zoe : _ ( lifting up her pettigown and folding a half sovereign into the top of her stocking .
his eyes grow dull , darker and pouched , his nose thickens .
bob doran falls sietly into an area .
uff !
— that one about the cracked lookingglass of a servant being the symbol of irish art is deuced good .
alf bergan will speak to the long fellow .
she did not lieit because i spraie my ankle first day she wore choir picnic at the sugarloaf .
thieves rob the slain .
el , yes : house of : aleph , beth .
well it ’ s god ’ s acre for them .
kind of a form in his mind ’ s eye .
gerty wished to goodness they would take their squalling baby home out of that and not get on her nerves , no hour to be out , and the little brats of twins .
shattered glass and toppling masonry .
lil chievelly solly .
full as a tick .
over the stones .
at sea , septentrional , by night the polestar , located at the point of intersection of the right liefrom beta to alpha in ursa maior produced and divie externally at omega and the hypotenuse of the rightangled triangle formed by the liealpha omega so produced and the liealpha delta of ursa maior .
— o , very well , mrbloom said .
— i will say there is much kindness in the jew , he quoted , elegantly .
longest way round is the shortest way home .
what have you been doing with yourself ?
conscience .
who said four ?
mild fieof wiekindled his veins .
hangende hunger , fragende frau , macht uns alle kaputt .
for my sake and for all our sakes .
— god , do you remember ?
barmaid in jury ’ s .
— well , it ’ s a fact , says john wyse .
a baton cool protruding .
big stones left .
only two there now .
_ ( to himself .
knows i am a man .
how was that ?
pothunters too .
and he wants it copied if it ’ s not too late i told councillor nannetti from the _kilkenny people_ .
make themselves thoroughly at home .
stphen asked , opening another book .
he stands before a lighted house , listening .
he asked .
fall into flesh , do not they ?
— ladies and gentlemen , i am most deeply oblie by your kind solicitations .
sad however because it lasts only a few years till they settle down to potwalloping and papa ’ s pants will soon fit willy and fuller ’ s earth for the baby when they hold him out to do ah ah .
you say right , sir .
longfelt want .
ordinary meat for them .
says he .
penance .
that or the customhouse .
curiously they are on the right .
this is my body .
a thing out in the water .
he asked , turning .
follow .
the man in the brown macintosh loves a lady who is dead .
on quietly creaky boots he went up the staircase to the hall , paused by the bedroom door .
squarepushing up against a backdoor .
he takes great prie quielegitimate , out of you .
their little frolic after meals .
yes ?
there is something sinister in you .
well educated .
do you think that ’ s a good ie ?
bloom : thank you , sir .
— tell me , mulligan , stphen said quietly .
come up , you fearful jesuit !
let me go .
) _ dash it all .
gob , there ’ s many a true word spoken in jest .
has nobody . ?
onions of his breath came across the counter out of his ruie mouth .
as the next motion on the agenda paper may i suggest that the house do now adjourn ?
swans from anna liffey swim down here sometie to preen themselves .
who booed joe chamberlain ?
tap .
lidwell asked .
is there anything more in him that they she sees ?
pandybat .
a warm tingling glow without effusion .
traitors swing .
he ambled dollard , bulky slops , before them ( hold that fellow with the : hold him now ) into the saloon .
then saw lieyellow streaks on his face .
— i was with bob doran , he ’ s on one of his periodical bends , and what do you call him bantam lyons .
maud gonne , beautiful woman , _la patrie_ , m millevoye , félix faure , know how he died ?
bloom : rosemary also did i understand you to say or willpower over parasitic tissues .
_ ( he wriggles .
moses and the promie land .
the problem is to get money .
and _madame_ .
her ( the lady ’ s ) eyes , dark , large , looked at stphen , about to smieabout something to be admie , lafayette of westmoreland street , dublings premier photographic artist , being responsible for the esthetic execution .
_in nomiedomini , _ in god ’ s name he knelt .
in virtue of a ) acquaintance initiated in september <NUMBER> in the establishment of george mesias , merchant tailor and outfitter , <NUMBER> eden quay , b ) hospitality extended and receie in kind , reciprocated and reappropriated in person , c ) comparatieyouth subject to impulses of ambition and magnanimity , colleagual altruism and amorous egoism , d ) extraracial attraction , intraracial inhibition , supraracial prerogatie e ) an immiet provincial musical tour , common current expenses , net proceeds divie .
her woman ’ s instinct told her that she had raie the devil in him and at the thought a burning scarlet swept from throat to brow till the lovely colour of her face became a glorious rose .
free money , free rent , free love and a free lay church in a free lay state .
) _ we fought for you in south africa , irish missietroops .
you are the link between nations and generations .
pallas athena !
burying him .
better get that lotion made up .
i paid my way .
_ ( he points to himself and the others .
material domination .
) _ here , to buy yourself a gin and splash .
after one .
john henry is not the worst in the world .
_martha_ it is .
the habit of independent purchase increasingly cultivated .
i am very fond of what i lie
south frederick street .
uninvie .
_dans ce bordel où tenons nostre état_ .
mrmulligan was civil enough to express some relish of it all the more as it jumped with a project of his own for the cure of the very evil that had been touched on .
) _ bloom : _ ( whimpers .
the glow leaps again .
it was a knockout clean and clever .
ten shillings .
) _ stephen : _ ( stangled with rage .
glass of bitter , please , and a sloegin for me .
the editor said .
the carriage rattled swiftly along blessington street .
the botanic gardens are just over there .
then if one thing stopped the whole ghesabo would stop bit by bit .
evening .
the pianola : my little shy little lass has a waist .
for many happy returns .
nothing to do .
those poor birds .
— for near a month , man , before it came off .
— this is real irish cream i take it , he said with forbearance .
her door was open : she wanted to hear my music .
zoe : _ ( her head perched asiein mock prie
virag : _ ( exciely .
) _ crybabby !
the great physician called him home .
dearer far than song or wie
or hughie wills ?
a quie of minnows , fat of a spongy titbit , flash through the slits of his buttoned trouserfly .
_kyrie eleison ! _ the closetmaker and the cloacamaker will never be lords of our spirit .
hear !
however , reverting to the original , there were on the other hand others who had forced their way to the top from the lowest rung by the aid of their bootstraps .
what moved visibly above the listener ’ s and the narrator ’ s invisible thoughts ?
) _ the horse : hohohohohohoh !
) _ stephen : aha !
drjohn alexander dowie restorer of the church in zion is coming .
martin cunningham began to brush away crustcrumbs from under his thighs .
has not lost them anyhow .
all yielding she tossed my hair .
) _ night , gentlemen .
molly , that hurdygurdy boy .
peniet thief .
he changed it by deedpoll , the father did .
father conmee lie cheerful decorum .
for terms apply : e dowden , highfield house . — lovely !
mahak makar a bak .
what fractions of phrases did the lecture of those fiewhole words evoke ?
to have brought a positiegain to others .
steam of lie
kniewith which voisin dismembered the wieof a compatriot and hid remains in a sheet in the cellar , the unfortunate female ’ s throat being cut from ear to ear .
whores in turkish graveyards .
) _ and he , a bachelor , how . first watch : the king versus bloom .
her widow ’ s mie
very large and wonderful and keeps famous tie
he smie at bronze ’ s teabathed lips , at listening lips and eyes : — the _élie of erin hung upon his lips .
the floor is covered with an oilcloth mosaic of jade and azure and cinnabar rhomboids .
they understand what we say better than we understand them .
and at the sound of the sacring bell , headed by a crucie with acolytes , thuries , boatbearers , readers , ostiarii , deacons and subdeacons , the blessed company drew nigh of mitred abbots and priors and guardians and monks and friars : the monks of benedict of spoleto , carthusians and camaldolesi , cistercians and olieans , oratorians and vallombrosans , and the friars of augustie brigittie , premonstratensians , servi , trinitarians , and the children of peter nolasco : and therewith from carmel mount the children of elijah prophet led by albert bishop and by teresa of avila , calced and other : and friars , brown and grey , sons of poor francis , capuchins , cordeliers , minie and observants and the daughters of clara : and the sons of dominic , the friars preachers , and the sons of vincent : and the monks of s wolstan : and ignatius his children : and the confraternity of the christian brothers led by the reverend brother edmund ignatius rie
always off to a fellow when they are .
— the schoolmen were schoolboys first , stphen said superpoliey .
might meet a robber or two .
i remonstrated with him , your lord , and he remarked : keep it quiet .
a flasher ?
could make a kind of pun on that .
dos à dos ! _ _ ( arabesquing wearily they weave a pattern on the floor , weaving , unweaving , curtseying , twirling , simply swirling .
— quieright too , mrdedalus said , going out .
from his forehead ariestarkly the mosaic ramshorns .
_in the lexicon of youth_ . see it in your face .
it went into his back up to the butt .
zoe : _ ( tears open the silverfoil .
about her bronze , over the bar where bald stood by sister gold , iequisiecontrast , contrast iequisienonexquisie slow cool dim seagreen sliding depth of shadow , _eau de nil . _ — poor old goodwin was the pianist that night , father cowley reminded them .
i have lie .
let ’ s ring all the bells in montague street .
made a big deal on coates ’ s shares .
drngdring !
emperor ’ s horses .
fiemonths .
unlawfully watching and besetting .
wonder did she wrote it herself .
what ’ s that ?
bloom : _ ( his head under the lamp , pulls the chain .
almost see them shimmering , kind of a bluey whie
but that viedecoction which has ruie so many hearths and homes had cast its shadow over her childhood days .
if you are outsiethe unie sttes , check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement before downloading , copying , displaying , performing , distributing or creating derivatieworks based on this work or any other project gutenberg tm work .
lascivious people .
già : di lui .
and a pound and a half of denny ’ s sausages .
take one spanish onion .
_ ( she points .
mrbest asked with slight concern .
the best obtainable .
across the sands of all the world , followed by the sun ’ s flaming sword , to the west , trekking to evening lands .
whatever in that one case done commodiously done was .
order .
cabled right away .
— the wandering jew , buck mulligan whispered with clown ’ s awe .
and deepmoved all , simon trumping compassion from foghorn nose , all laughing they brought him forth , ben dollard , in right good cheer .
pulses were beating in his eyes , veiling their sight , and he felt the fever of his cheeks .
hop !
to reflect that each one who enters imagie himself to be the first to enter whereas he is always the last term of a preceding series even if the first term of a succeeding one , each imagining himself to be first , last , only and alone whereas he is neither first nor last nor only nor alone in a series originating in and repeated to infinity .
but o , oblieme by taking away that knie
why hast thou done this abomination before me that thou didst spurn me for a merchant of jalaps and didst deny me to the roman and to the indian of dark speech with whom thy daughters did lie luxuriously ?
it is not why therefore we shall wonder if , as the best historians relate , among the celts , who nothing that was not in its nature admirable admie , the art of medicieshall have been highly honoured .
quakerlyster plasters blisters .
lady ’ s hand .
galleys of the lochlanns ran here to beach , in quest of prey , their bloodbeaked prows riding low on a molten pewter surf .
— take a what ?
i will tell my brother , the bectierugger fullback , on you , heartless flirt .
if it ’ s healthy it ’ s from the mother .
take off that white hat .
long john is backing him , they say .
drssed up to the nie for somebody .
the welterweight sergeantmajor had tapped some liey claret in the previous mixup during which keogh had been receiegeneral of rights and lefts , the artilleryman putting in some neat work on the pet ’ s nose , and myler came on looking groggy .
buck mulligan sighed tragically and laid his hand on stphen ’ s arm .
it ran as follows : _tarjeta postal , señor a boudin , galeria becche , santiago , chie_ there was no message evietly , as he took particular notie
well , my fault perhaps .
then someone said something about the case of the s . s . _lady cairns_ of swansea run into by the _mona_ which was on an opposietack in rather muggyish weather and lost with all hands on deck .
devil to open them too .
o wait .
huggermugger in corners .
terrible , terrible !
boody asked .
it ’ s the moment you feel .
hray !
never heard of him .
russell .
— o , ask me , sir .
bloom : yes , ma ’ am ?
— no , mrbloom repeated again , i would not personally repose much trust in that boon companion of yours who contributes the humorous element , drmulligan , as a guie philosopher and friend if i were in your shoes .
he never forgets a friend .
but i know it ’ s whie yellow .
something green it would have to be : spinach , say .
everyone thought the world of her for her gentle ways .
heigho !
not on my breakfast .
_ ( laughter ) _ buckmulligan : ( _piano , diminuendo_ ) then outspoke medical dick to his comrade medical davy . stephen : in his trinity of black wills , the villain shakebags , iago , richard crookback , edmund in _king lear_ , two bear the wicked uncles ’ names .
lord mayor of dublin !
one fellow told another and so on .
i
those pretty little seasiegurls .
thing done .
heigho !
good bacon : gone musty .
miss kennedy , pouring now a fulldrawn tea , grimaced and prayed : — o , do not remind me of him for mercy ’ sake !
she put an arm round the little marie and coaxed winningly : — what ’ s your name ?
greasy black rope .
salt in the ormond damp .
— he was in at lunchtie miss douce said .
a raindrop spat on his hat .
dinners fit for princes .
a voice from the gallery : moses , moses , king of the jews , wie his arse in the _daily news_ .
feel it myself too .
day : then the night .
dogs ’ home over there .
a most romantic inciet occurred when a handsome young oxford graduate , noted for his chivalry towards the fair sex , stepped forward and , presenting his visiting card , bankbook and genealogical tree , solicie the hand of the hapless young lady , requesting her to name the day , and was accepted on the spot .
) _ the urchins : mind out , mister !
hee hee hee hee .
terrible comedown , poor wretch !
we heard the piano .
drnk water scented with fennel , sherbet .
) _ i do not know your name but you are quieright .
bello : _ ( gie a rap with his gavel .
she dances in a foul gloom where gum bums with garlic .
— the imperial british state , stphen answered , his colour rising , and the holy roman catholic and apostolic church .
wish i had not promie to meet .
tout le monde en place ! _ _ ( the prelude ceases .
there is , i feel in the words , some goad of the flesh driving him into a new passion , a darker shadow of the first , darkening even his own understanding of himself .
— because she never let them in , mrdeasy said solemnly .
_ ( they whisper again .
better not .
the seas ’ ruler , he gazed southward over the bay , empty save for the smokeplume of the mailboat vague on the bright skylieand a sail tacking by the muglins .
a truerhearted lass never drew the breath of lie always with a laugh in her gipsylieeyes and a frolicsome word on her cherryriered lips , a girl lovable in the extreme .
tap .
pubs do .
the cold steel pen .
_ ( twittering .
by juxtaposition .
of course his infant majesty was most obstreperous at such toie formalities and he let everyone know it : — habaa baaaahabaaa baaaa .
something occult : symbolism .
— ohio !
good : he left her and gaie the world of men .
his hand accepted the moist tender gland and slid it into a sieocket .
heavy of the past .
fertilie and incubator .
my memory ’ s not so bad .
mrbloom came last folding his paper again into his pocket .
says alf .
— yes .
magennis thinks you must have been pulling a e ’ s leg .
wreckers .
how moving the scene there in the gathering twilight , the last glimpse of erin , the touching chieof those evening bells and at the same time a bat flew forth from the ivied belfry through the dusk , hither , thither , with a tiny lost cry .
he would be eleven now if he had lie .
has all vanished since ?
the black panther !
silk of the kieand poor old woman , names gie her in old tie .
why did i run ?
jing .
all a plan so he could vamoose with the pool if he won or ( jesus , full up i was ) trading without a liece ( ow ! )
— it is , bloom said .
[ <NUMBER> ] what parallel courses did bloom and stphen follow returning ?
incautiously i took your part when you were accused of pilfering .
eaten a bad egg .
just there .
_o , o_ .
o , the fieof hell !
on the farther sieunder the railway bridge bloom appears , flushed , panting , cramming bread and chocolate into a sieocket .
ma !
he gave a sudden loud young laugh as a close .
_ ( stggering bob , a whieolled calf , thrusts a ruminating head with humid nostrils through the foliage .
no browbeating him .
thrill now .
_ ( bloom assumes a mantle of cloth of gold and puts on a ruby ring .
so they turned on to chatting about music , a form of art for which bloom , as a pure amateur , possessed the greatest love , as they made tracks arm in arm across beresford place .
the project gutenberg lieary archiefoundation ( " the foundation " or pglaf ) , owns a compilation copyright in the collection of project gutenberg tm electronic works .
_ ( he sighs and stretches himself , then murmurs thickly with prolonged vowels .
what is that , a bob here and there , dribs and drabs .
the navvy : _ ( shouts .
remember , erin , thy generations and thy days of old , how thou settedst little by me and by my word and broughtedst in a stranger to my gates to commit fornication in my sight and to wax fat and kick liejeshurum .
— dead !
— i wonder did he ever put it out of sight , says joe .
cries le fécondateur , tripping in , my friend monsieur moore , that most accomplished traveller ( i have just cracked a half bottle _avec lui_ in a circle of the best wits of the town ) , is my authority that in cape horn , _ventre biche_ , they have a rain that will wet through any , even the stoutest cloak .
in vain he trotted , signalling in vain among the rout of barekneed gillies smuggling implements of music through trinity gates .
_ ( the former morganatic spouse of bloom is hastily removed in the black maria .
bridie !
later on please .
dollard , yes .
buck mulligan ’ s watchful eyes saw the waitress come .
here there try there here all try where .
even more he lie an old german song of _johannes jeep_ about the clear sea and the voie of sies , sweet murderers of men , which boggled bloom a bit : von der sieen listigkeit tun die poeten dichten .
for some man .
perhaps there is someone .
— it has waie so long , stphen said listlessly , it can wait longer .
no chair for father .
three months ’ renewal .
his _fidus achates_ !
doctor swift says one man in armour will beat ten men in their shirts .
a plumtree in a meatpot , registered trade mark .
god made the country man the tune .
naughty darling .
his human eyes scream to me out of horror of his death .
conceie fellow with his waxedup moustache .
his foremother .
bloom : _ ( in tattered mocassins with a rusty fowlingpiece , tiptoeing , fingertipping , his haggard bony bearded face peering through the diamond panes , cries out .
who knows is that true about the woman he keeps ?
a chasm opens with a noieess yawn .
) _ byby , poldy !
their bodies plunge .
watching is his nose pointed is his jaw sinking are the soles of his feet yellow .
— mrdollard , they murmured low .
mayhap it was this , the love that might have been , that lent to her softlyfeatured face at whie a look , tense with suppressed meaning , that imparted a strange yearning tendency to the beautiful eyes , a charm few could resist .
) _ lieof fate .
he takes me , napper tandy , by the hand .
and yet it was in some way if not as memory fabled it .
avoid .
apologie
) _ was he insulting you ?
stphen , shielding the gaping wounds which the words had left in his heart , said very coldly : — i am not thinking of the offence to my mother .
— we can drink it black , stphen said thirstily .
he slid it into the left slot for them .
did not : no , no : believe : lidlyd .
and a game filly she is .
she had outlie him .
) _ the witching hour of night .
rare lamps with faint rainbow fans .
stll , she might do worse .
a part of the walls of dublin , crowded with loyal sightseers , collapses .
the flutter of his breath came forth in short sighs .
beautiful on that _tre_ her voieis : weeping tone .
mrbloom ’ s eye followed its lieand saw again the dyeworks ’ van drawn up before drgo ’ s .
is it only half fun ?
bloom releases his hand and wrie idly on the table in backhand , pencilling slow curves .
and even scraping up the earth at night with a lantern liethat case i read of to get at fresh buried females or even putrefied with running gravesores .
some animal .
how did they take leave , one of the other , in separation ?
corny kelleher : _ ( nudges the second watch .
stephen : the harlot ’ s cry from street to street shall weave old ireland ’ s windingsheet .
edy boardman asked tommy caffrey was he done and he said yes so then she buttoned up his little knickerbockers for him and told him to run off and play with jacky and to be good now and not to fight .
i am on two minds not to giethat fellow in charge for obstructing the thoroughfare with his brooms and ladders .
hee hee .
— o , i am sure that will be all right , hynes , says bloom .
castie
mayonnaiei poured on the plums thinking it was custard .
always lie to let her self out .
nature woman half a look .
i think i will join you .
and lo , wonder of metempsychosis , it is she , the everlasting brie harbinger of the daystar , the brie ever virgin .
giea bleeding whore a chance .
that lies in space which i in tiemust come to , ieuctably .
who will woo you ?
) _ bloom : _ ( blows .
— are you sure , says bloom , the councillor is going ?
stll as regards return .
— changing his drink , mrdedalus said .
what . _ ( florry whispers to her .
that last day ie .
a sugarsticky girl shovelling scoopfuls of creams for a christian brother .
my eyes they say she has .
he was humane and honoured there .
here .
john wyse nolan came down again .
— the leaning of sophists towards the bypaths of apocrypha is a constant quantity , john eglinton detected .
quite dark , regular brunette , black .
and says joe , sticking his thumb in his pocket : — it ’ s the russians wish to tyrannie
i will tap him too .
ireland , they say , has the honour of being the only country which never persecuted the jews .
a phrase , then , of impatience , thud of blake ’ s wings of excess .
to hell with them all .
no .
man , now fierce angry , strie woman ’ s fat yadgana .
i had giemy liefor him , the funniest man on earth .
— no , mrbloom said .
_ ( a cigarette appears on the table .
fff !
and off with him and out trying to walk straight .
— throw him out and shut the door , the editor said .
not saying a word .
dee .
the eyes in which a tear and a smiestrove ever for the mastery were of the diesions of a goodsie cauliflower .
niechange of air .
by bachelor ’ s walk jogjaunty jingled blazes boylan , bachelor , in sun in heat , mare ’ s glossy rump atrot , with flick of whip , on bounding tyres : sprawled , warmseated , boylan impatience , ardentbold .
touch .
here .
is he dead ?
half a mo .
he twirls in reversed dietions a clouded cane , then wedges it tight in his oxter .
the princess selene , in moonblue robes , a silver crescent on her head , descends from a sedan chair , borne by two giants .
when he had betaken himself to the women ’ s apartment to assist at the prescrie ceremony of the afterbirth in the presence of the secretary of state for domestic affairs and the members of the privy council , siet in unanimous exhaustion and approbation the delegates , chafing under the length and solemnity of their vigil and hoping that the joyful occurrence would palliate a liece which the simultaneous absence of abigail and obstetrician rendered the easier , broke out at once into a strieof tongues .
and now he will play his ball no more for he lies among the dead .
good lord , that poor child ’ s dress is in flitters .
and there came against the place as they stood a young learningknight yclept dixon .
what object offered partial consolation for these reminiscences ?
because if they did not believe they had go straight to heaven when they die they had try to liebetter , at least so i think .
no .
* * * from the sundial towards james ’ s gate walked mrkernan , pleased with the order he had booked for pulbrook robertson , boldly along james ’ s street , past shackleton ’ s offie .
all the windows are thronged with sightseers , chiefly ladies .
he had his answer pat for everything .
he has seen a fair share go under in his tie lying around him field after field .
he wo not gieyou any trouble , bob .
waterloo .
buck mulligan asked .
far .
i am in his son .
a powerful current of warm breath issued at regular intervals from the profound cavity of his mouth whiein rhythmic resonance the loud strong hale reverberations of his formidable heart thundered rumblingly causing the ground , the summit of the lofty tower and the still loftier walls of the cave to vibrate and tremble .
having requested a quart of buttermilk this was brought and evietly afforded relief .
on my way .
above sum will be paid for information leading to his discovery .
no jerks and multiple mucosities all over you .
he is pelted with gravel , cabbagestumps , biscuitboxes , eggs , potatoes , dead codfish , woman ’ s slipperslappers .
i heard that .
i am all of a mucksweat .
behind .
lend him to me .
pleasants street .
italian i prefer .
— excuse me , councillor , he said .
last night i flew .
that a man ’ s soul after he dies .
_ ( he executes a daredevil salmon leap in the air and is engulfed in the coalhole .
) _ it is a funny sound .
— u
gieme my wordsworth .
piano again .
soulfully .
the plays of shakespeare ’ s later years which renan admie so much breathe another spirit .
pity .
tieenough .
— there ’ s hair , joe , says i
busy looking .
the chair of the resiet indeed stood vacant before the hearth but on either flank of it the figure of bannon in explorer ’ s kit of tweed shorts and salted cowhide brogues contrasted sharply with the primrose elegance and townbred manners of malachi roland stjohn mulligan .
what am i following him for ?
w hurley , c c ; the rt rev .
deportment .
ay .
famie plague and slaughters .
a heavy stye droops over her sleepy eyelid .
— the fiet man , says he , snieling , the fiet purest character .
nosey flynn asked .
his snout lifted barked at the wavenoie herds of seamorse .
he knows which siehis bread is buttered on though in all probability he never realie what it is to be without regular meals .
) _ the royal dublins , boys , the salt of the earth , known the world over .
i will show you .
_ ( shouting in his ear .
all agree with him .
— never mind gumley , myles crawford cried angrily .
lenehan walked on again .
liethat haughty creature at the polo match .
) _ bloom : _ ( hobbledehoy , warmgloved , mammamufflered , starred with spent snowballs , struggles to rie
gulls .
black for the married .
and plotting that murder all the tie
) _ forgiehim his trespasses .
it ’ s in the siece after you feel you hear .
he wears a whiejersey on which an image of the sacred heart is stitched with the insignia of garter and thistle , golden fleece , elephant of denmark , skinner ’ s and probyn ’ s horse , lincoln ’ s inn bencher and ancient and honourable artillery company of massachusetts .
the seabirds screaming .
hopeless .
now if he got paralysed there and no one knew how to stop them they had clank on and on the same , print it over and over and up and back .
birds ’ nest . _ women run him .
_cloche .
how are you at all ?
) _ hola !
i need mountain air .
how dare you , sir !
brimstone they called it raining down : the cities of the plain : sodom , gomorrah , edom .
he whispered then near stphen ’ s ear : lenehan ’ s limerick — _there ’ s a ponderous pundit machugh who wears goggles of ebony hue .
_ ( shocked , on weak hams , he halts .
coinciece .
_ ( from the suttee pyre the flame of gum camphieascends .
— for god ’ s sake !
he prolonged his pleased smie
— are you a medical student , sir ?
corpse brought in through a secret door in the wall .
the eyes that were fastened upon her set her pulses tingling .
my belief is , to tell you the candid truth , that those bits were genuieforgeries all of them put in by monks most probably or it ’ s the big question of our national poet over again , who preciey wrote them lie_hamlet_ and bacon , as , you who know your shakespeare infiniey better than i , of course i need not tell you .
shall we see you at moore ’ s tonight ?
feel better .
tiptop position for a pub .
something to hand on .
stephen : _ ( murmurs .
darkly they are there behind this light , darkness shining in the brightness , delta of cassiopeia , worlds .
— that i had , he said , pushing it by .
handed down from father to , mother to daughter , i mean .
she folded the card into her untidy bag and snapped the catch .
says joe .
corny kelleher : _ ( to the watch , with drawling eye .
he read , _marcato : _ — characters : toby tostoff ( a ruie pole ) crab ( a bushranger ) medical dick ) and ) ( two birds with one stone ) medical davy ) mother grogan ( a watercarrier ) fresh nelly and rosalie ( the coalquay whore ) .
— i told him your symbol of irish art .
he knows .
_ ( he laughs .
bloom : _ ( with precaution .
in the dark land they bie the vengeful knights of the razor .
a stooped bearded figure appears garbed in the long caftan of an elder in zion and a smokingcap with magenta tassels .
i felt it was expected of me .
and one more to hail him : _ave , rabbi_ : the tinahely twelve .
he said also how at the end of the second month a human soul was infused and how in all our holy mother foldeth ever souls for god ’ s greater glory whereas that earthly mother which was but a dam to bear beastly should die by canon for so saith he that holdeth the fisherman ’ s seal , even that blessed peter on which rock was holy church for all ages founded .
and begob there he was passing the door with his books under his oxter and the wiebesiehim and corny kelleher with his wall eye looking in as they went past , talking to him liea father , trying to sell him a secondhand coffin .
he watched her dodge through passers towards the shopfronts .
) _ i left the precincts .
lent it to his friend .
_for england , home and beauty_ .
<NUMBER> november <NUMBER> , to the birth on <NUMBER> december <NUMBER> of second ( and only male ) issue , deceased <NUMBER> january <NUMBER> , aged <NUMBER> days , there remaie a period of <NUMBER> years , <NUMBER> months and <NUMBER> days during which carnal intercourse had been incomplete , without ejaculation of semen within the natural female organ .
_ ( she frowns with lowered head .
his eyes followed the high figure in homespun , beard and bicycle , a listening woman at his sie
bullockbefriending .
tap — very , mrdedalus said , staring hard at a headless sardie
are we going to win ?
— as it should be , mrkernan said .
the referee twice cautioned pucking percy for holding but the pet was tricky and his footwork a treat to watch .
virag : _ ( a diabolic rictus of black luminosity contracting his visage , cranes his scraggy neck forward .
how many women had you , eh , following them up dark streets , flatfoot , exciting them by your smothered grunts , what , you male prostitute ?
loud .
wieess intercontietal and interplanetary transmitters are set for reception of message .
beard and bicycle .
otherwiei could not have .
) _ jimmy henry : the court of conscience is now open .
what tie
because you get it out of all holes and corners .
bloom : _ ( with rollicking humour .
) _ arse over tip .
zoe : _ ( peering at bloom ’ s palm .
no wind could lift those waves , grey metal , poisonous foggy waters .
yes , bread of angels it ’ s called .
slaves chiee wall .
the lords of the moon , theosophos told me , an orangefiery shipload from planet alpha of the lunar chain would not assume the etheric doubles and these were therefore incarnated by the rubycoloured egos from the second constellation .
wonder if that dodge works now getting dicky meat off the train at clonsilla .
lawksamercy , doctor , cried the young blood in the primrose vest , feigning a womanish simper and with immodest squirmings of his body , how you do tease a body !
john henry menton is behind .
have birds no smell ?
and no more turn asieand brood .
bargain : six bob .
only one lump of sugar in my tea , if you please .
all souls ’ day .
where ’ s my hat ?
bello : you will make the beds , get my tub ready , empty the pisspots in the different rooms , including old mrkeogh ’ s the cook ’ s , a sandy one .
who ’ s in the corner ?
— how ’ s the body ?
dublin bakery company ’ s tearoom .
the gravediggers bore the coffin and set its nose on the brink , looping the bands round it .
nom de dieu ! _ — of course i am a britisher , haie ’ s voiesaid , and i feel as one .
drngadring !
elijah , skiff , light crumpled throwaway , saie eastward by flanks of ships and trawlers , amid an archieago of corks , beyond new wapping street past benson ’ s ferry , and by the threemasted schooner _rosevean_ from bridgwater with bricks .
if you do the eyes of that cow will pursue you through all eternity .
costie
— were you robbing the poorbox , joe ?
a hasty step over the stone porch and in the corridor .
he came in quickly and bumped against lenehan who was struggling up with the second tissue .
really he was .
she had plenty of game in her then .
but this is the point .
shut your eyes and open your mouth .
be sure now and wrieto me .
i have a lovely pair with a hair strie grey .
who is this wrote ?
bald pat in the doorway met tealess gold returning .
riddle me , riddle me , randy ro .
is he in love with that one , marion ?
van .
he was the eldest son of inspector corley of the g division , lately deceased , who had married a certain katheriebrophy , the daughter of a louth farmer .
egg two evietly demolished , he nodded and winked , adding bloodthirstily : _ — buffalo bill shoots to kill , never missed nor he never will . _ a siece ensued till mrbloom for agreeableness ’ sake just felt like asking him whether it was for a marksmanship competition liethe bisley .
each street different smell .
_ ( he pie scoffingly .
as per prospectus of the industrious foreign acclimatie nationalie friendly stteaie building society ( incorporated <NUMBER> ) , a maximum of £ <NUMBER> per annum , being <NUMBER> / 6 of an assured income , derie from giltedged securities , representing at <NUMBER> % simple interest on capital of £ <NUMBER> ( estimate of prieat <NUMBER> years ’ purchase ) , of which <NUMBER> / 3 to be paid on acquisition and the balance in the form of annual rent , viz .
never forget that night .
— she ’ s better where she is , he said kindly .
who is this she was lie
— come on , gerty , cissy called .
say something to him .
_ ( more genially .
wriggle it , girls !
the weapon used .
for aged and virtuous females .
— there was one woman , nosey flynn said , hid herself in a clock to find out what they do be doing .
thereat mirth grew in them the more and they rehearsed to him his curious rieof wedlock for the disrobing and deflowering of spouses , as the priests use in madagascar island , she to be in guieof whieand saffron , her groom in whieand grain , with burning of nard and tapers , on a brieed whieclerks sung kyries and the anthem _ut novetur sexus omnis corporis mysterium_ till she was there unmaie .
they like buttering themselves in and out .
— so i am , ben warrior laughed .
the answer is a lemon .
) _ bloom : _ ( elbowing through the crowd , plucks stphen ’ s sleeve vigorously .
they were haggling over money .
there ’ s an example again of simple souls .
molly had that elephantgrey dress with the braie frogs .
my soul ’ s youth i gave him , night by night .
head , redconecapped , buffeted , brielinded .
thought something was wrong by the cut of her jib .
silly fish learn nothing in a thousand years .
the dwarf acolytes , giggling , peeping , nudging , ogling , easterkissing , zigzag behind him .
decent soul .
crossguns bridge : the royal canal .
quote the textual terms of this notie
an instant after , under its screen , his eyes looked quickly , ghostbright , at his foe and fell once more upon a working corner .
i have a few left from andrews .
three purty maids from school .
my heart .
— he had a good groatsworth of wit , stphen said , and no truant memory .
turks .
psha !
how can you own water really ?
those cinghalese lobbing about in the sun in _dolce far niente_ , not doing a hand ’ s turn all day .
— that mole is the last to go , stphen said , laughing .
he springs off into vacuum .
mary driscoll : _ ( scornfully .
marion . — tweedy .
might work a press pass .
the change of name .
he looked at the cattle , blurred in silver heat .
money was no object , he said , nor would he take a penny for his pains .
charles alberta marsh : must be virgin .
— gone to meet father , maggy said .
sweet tea miss kennedy having poured with milk plugged both two ears with little fingers .
trade follows the flag .
— and tell us , hynes said , do you know that fellow in the , fellow was over there in the .
the phenomenon of ebullition .
a mouthful of tea .
— the kidney !
no .
the night air was certainly now a treat to breathe though stphen was a bit weak on his pins .
theodore ’ s cousin in dublin castle .
_ ( his lawnmower begins to purr .
bloom : _ ( obdurately .
) _ the lacquey : barang !
careless chap .
out he goes again .
— ay , paddy leonard said .
the sewage .
— you are in black , i see .
) _ what a learned speech , eh ?
flea having a good square meal .
simon : think of your mother ’ s people !
shrill shriek of laughter sprang from miss kennedy ’ s throat .
) _ ah , bosh , man .
) _ to be a shoefitter in manfield ’ s was my love ’ s young dream , the darling joys of sweet buttonhooking , to lace up crisscrossed to kneelength the dressy kid footwear satinlie , so incredibly impossibly small , of clyde road ladies .
and there came a voieout of heaven , calling : _elijah !
gallons .
the young man raie his cap abruptly : the young woman abruptly bent and with slow care detached from her light skirt a clinging twig .
father cowley asked .
good .
tastes fuller this weather with the chill off .
on his cheek , dull and bloodless , a soft stain of ink lay , dateshaped , recent and damp as a snail ’ s bed .
_and in the porches of mieear did pour . _ by the way how did he find that out ?
the navvy : _ ( shouts .
plamtroo .
it is a colossal edifiewith crystal roof , built in the shape of a huge pork kidney , containing forty thousand rooms .
— i had lieto giehim something , she said , so i would , where i wo not say .
) _ o , my dictionary .
keeps them young .
) _ we are the boys .
— he knew what money was , mrdeasy said .
cold comfort .
bloom : because it did not suit you one quarter as well as the other ducky little tammy toque with the bird of paradiewing in it that i admie on you and you honestly looked just too fetching in it though it was a pity to kill it , you cruel naughty creature , little mieof a thing with a heart the sieof a fullstop .
whieallowing him his individual opinions as everyman the keeper added he cared nothing for any empie ours or his , and consieed no irishman worthy of his salt that served it .
on that mystery and not on the madonna which the cunning italian intellect flung to the mob of europe the church is founded and founded irremovably because founded , liethe world , macro and microcosm , upon the void .
) _ whew !
no trouble .
) _ high jinks below stairs .
) _ father malachi o ’ flynn : _introibo ad altare diaboli . _ the reverend mr haines love : to the devil which hath made glad my young days .
eat it and get all pigsticky .
thanks .
sloping into the empie
gulfer of souls , engulfer .
unmentionable .
mrpower gazed at the passing houses with rueful apprehension .
he was bloody safe he was not run in himself under the act that tieas a rogue and vagabond only he had a friend in court .
by easy stages .
he turned to both .
wonder he had the gumption to propose to any girl .
boylan : _ ( to bloom , over his shoulder .
yes ?
with who ?
) _ dr madden : hypsospadia is also marked .
spooks .
_ ( his skin , alert , feels her fingertips approach .
sweet name too : caramel .
the arrival of the worldrenowned headsman was greeted by a roar of acclamation from the huge concourse , the vieegal ladies waving their handkerchiefs in their excieent whiethe even more excitable foreign delegates cheered vocieously in a medley of cries , _hoch , banzai , eljen , zivio , chinchin , polla kronia , hiphip , vie allah_ , amid which the ringing _evviva_ of the delegate of the land of song ( a high double f recalling those piercingly lovely notes with which the eunuch catalani beglamoured our greatgreatgrandmothers ) was easily distinguishable .
look to the west .
we was chased by pirates one voyage .
he broke away .
barrels bumped in his head : dull porter slopped and churned insie
did you read that skit in the _unie irishman_ today about that zulu chief that ’ s visiting england ?
black conducts , reflects , ( refracts is it ?
on the road to malahie
lettuce .
i am watching you .
janey mack , i am choked !
sex breaking out even then .
all could see how hard it was for him to be reminded of his promieand of his recent loss .
all serene .
cemetery put in of course on account of the symmetry .
strt afresh .
mrbloom said eagerly .
condole with her .
he laughed to free his mind from his mind ’ s bondage .
says the citie .
rudolph bloom ( deceased ) narrated to his son leopold bloom ( aged <NUMBER> ) a retrospectiearrangement of migrations and settlements in and between dublin , london , florence , milan , vienna , budapest , szombathely with statements of satisfaction ( his grandfather having seen maria theresia , empress of austria , queen of hungary ) , with commercial advie ( having taken care of pence , the pounds having taken care of themselves ) .
where ’ s the buck and namby amby ?
have you read his f ?
well preserved fat corpse , gentleman , epicure , invaluable for fruit garden .
— o , it ’ s a fieorder , nosey flynn said .
) _ yumyum .
) _ here , none of your tall talk .
hanging over the bloody paper with alf looking for spicy bits instead of attending to the general public .
after him toddles an obese grandfather rat on fungus turtle paws under a grey carapace .
_ ( he leans out on tortured forepaws , elbows bent rigid , his eye agonising in his flat skullneck and yelps over the mute world .
a woman and a man .
how ?
only in the halfpenny place .
private compton : _ ( laughs .
i know you , gammer !
— tarentum , sir .
we have edward the peacemaker now .
down in the vaults of saint werburgh ’ s lovely old organ hundred and fifty they have to bore a hole in the coffins sometie to let out the bad gas and burn it .
in the shady wood .
coming .
exhausted , breathless , their shaken heads they laid , braie and pinnacled by glossycombed , against the counterledge .
private carr : _ ( tugging at his belt .
orangegroves for instance .
florry : _ ( nods .
i will not sleep there when this night comes .
then gently his finger felt the skin of his right cheek .
are you sure you wo not have anything in the way of liquid refreshment ?
on the _erings king_ that day round the kish .
_ ( a sinister figure leans on plaie legs against o ’ beirne ’ s wall , a visage unknown , injected with dark mercury .
mrhenry blackwood prie
green apples .
— is he ?
and how ’ s the old heart , citie ?
a lot of deadwood dicks in slouch hats and they firing at a sambo strung up in a tree with his tongue out and a bonfieunder him .
eaten by birds .
dirt gets rolled up in your navel .
show us a minute .
madden had lost fiedrachmas on sceptre for a whim of the rie ’ s name : lenehan as much more .
but the word of mr costello was an unwelcome language for him for he nauseated the wretch that seemed to him a cropeared creature of a misshapen gibbosity , born out of wedlock and thrust liea crookback toothed and feet first into the world , which the dint of the surgeon ’ s pliers in his skull lent indeed a colour to , so as to put him in thought of that missing link of creation ’ s chain desieated by the late ingenious mrdarwin .
skinfood .
caviare .
assuefaction minorates atrocities ( as tully saith of his darling stics ) and hamlet his father showeth the prince no blister of combustion .
then all settled down on their knees again and he sat back quietly in his bench .
now begging letters he sends his son with .
i want sandycove milk .
poor sceptre !
thanks , that was heavenly .
must ask ned lambert to lend me those reminiscences of sir jonah barrington .
tieto get a bath round the corner .
buck mulligan cried .
no passout checks .
invent a story for some proverb .
along by the edge of the mole he lolloped , dawdled , smelt a rock and from under a cocked hindleg pissed against it .
la corbeille !
same as citron ’ s house .
— no , ben , tom kernan interfered .
government offie are temporarily transferred to railway sheds .
tritonville road .
a hollybush : and in the devil ’ s glen ?
— after all , haie began . stphen turned and saw that the cold gaze which had measured him was not all unkind .
( a huge ad in its way ) and gentlemanly bearing to all the more influence the good impression he would infallibly score a distinct success , being blessed with brains which also could be utilie for the purpose and other requisie , if his clothes were properly attended to so as to the better worm his way into their good graces as he , a youthful tyro in society ’ s sartorial nieies , hardly understood how a little thing liethat could militate against you .
_ ( his emiece simon stphen cardinal dedalus , primate of all ireland , appears in the doorway , dressed in red soutane , sandals and socks .
misters very selects for is pleasure must to visit heaven and hell show with mortuary candles and they tears silver which occur every night .
if you want a little more . hynes : _ ( coldly .
just you gieit a fair trial .
a dedale of lusty youth , noble every student there .
then wotted he nought of that other land which is called believe on - me , that is the land of promiewhich behoves to the king delightful and shall be for ever where there is no death and no birth neither wiving nor mothering at which all shall come as many as believe on it ?
who brought me into this world lies there , bronzelidded , under few cheap flowers .
slaking his drouth .
glad i took that bath .
swish and soft flop her stays made on the bed .
_ ( he gazes intently downwards on the water .
herring ’ s blush .
the tall form of long john fanning filled the doorway where he stood .
the reflection that , apart from the letter in question , his magnetic face , form and address had been favourably receie during the course of the preceding day by a wie ( mrjosephiebreen , born josie powell ) , a nurse , miss callan ( christian name unknown ) , a maid , gertrude ( gerty , family name unknown ) .
hynes asked .
seekers on the great quest .
then that bawler in barney kiernan ’ s .
it was at the royal uniesity dinner .
— who are you laughing at ?
take off the rough dirt .
the possibility of exercising viriepower of fascination in the not immediate future after an expensierepast in a private apartment in the company of an elegant courtesan , of corporal beauty , moderately mercenary , variously instructed , a lady by origin .
and what was his name ?
bloom : _ ( shifts from foot to foot .
_ ( bloom explains to those near him his schemes for social regeneration .
at the bar , english or irish : exemplars , seymour bushe , k c , rufus isaacs , k c on the stage , modern or shakespearean : exemplars , charles wyndham , high comedian , osmond tearle ( † <NUMBER> ) , exponent of shakespeare .
) _ i tried her things on only twie a small prank , in holles street .
damn her .
who chose this face for me ?
bloom : _ ( rushes to the hall , rushes back .
click does the trick .
something in the air .
slaughter of innocents .
— lo , joe , says i
he looked calmly down on her bulk and between her large soft bubs , sloping within her nightdress liea shegoat ’ s udder .
— where there is a reconciliation , stphen said , there must have been first a sundering .
padding themselves out if fat is in fashion .
from the sublieto the ridiculous is but a step .
prieit was killed him .
he was but eleven months and niedays old and , though still a tiny toddler , was just beginning to lisp his first babyish words .
piebald for bachelors .
and all down the form .
— i believe so , mrkernan answered .
coffie thoughts around me , in mummycases , embalmed in spieof words .
— o , my corns !
the lefthand dead shot .
o , father , will you ?
hence this .
— here , she said .
_stphano dedalo , alumno optimo , palmam ferenti . _ father conmee , having read his little hours , walked through the hamlet of donnycarney , murmuring vespers .
something galoptious .
they are masked , with daggered hair and bracelets of dull bells .
fate .
— yes , sir .
— filberts i believe they were , mrdedalus said , as he dropped his glasses on his coatfront , following them .
the fauna .
clank it .
— if that were the birthmark of genius , he said , genius would be a drug in the market .
clapclopclap .
heat .
in the intense instant of imagination , when the mind , shelley says , is a fading coal , that which i was is that which i am and that which in possibility i may come to be .
babes in the wood .
women whisper eagerly .
) _ up !
and i heard the voice of that egyptian highpriest .
— you are in dawson street , mrbloom said .
poor dignam !
if little rudy had lie .
pretend to want something awfully , then cry off for her sake .
then the decree _nisi_ and the king ’ s proctor tries to show cause why and , he failing to quash it , _nisi_ was made absolute .
you would imagiethat would get played out pretty quick .
) _ is right .
e ’ en so .
kosher .
god , i am dying for it .
miss kennedy lipped her cup again , raie , drank a sip and gigglegiggled .
eyes of a toad too .
the professor grinned , locking his long lips .
cissy caffrey : i was in company with the soldiers and they left me to do — you know , and the young man run up behind me .
amen .
then , though it had poured seven showers , we were neither of us a penny the worse .
hard by the block stood the grim figure of the executioner , his visage being concealed in a tengallon pot with two circular perforated apertures through which his eyes glowered furiously .
an instant of blind rut .
why ?
tap .
why mutable ( aliorelatie ?
evensong love on hackney jaunt blazes blind coddoubled bicyclers dilly with snowcake no fancy clothes .
gelid light and air were in the kitchen but out of doors gentle summer morning everywhere .
effect on the sexual .
) _ you hit him without provocation .
_ ( he counts .
j j o ’ molloy pulled a long face and walked on sietly .
_hamlet ou le distrait pièce de shakespeare_ he repeated to john eglinton ’ s newgathered frown : — _pièce de shakespeare_ , do not you know .
b pinker is in attendance .
_ ( he offers the other cheek .
lord howard de walden ’ s _zinfandel_ ( m cannon ) <NUMBER> .
mina purefoy swollen belly on a bed groaning to have a child tugged out of her .
she drew herself up to her full height .
her hat sank at once .
whieot passion was in that face , passion siet as the grave , and it had made her his .
same style of beauty .
with his maie gauntlet he brushed away a furtietear and was overheard , by those privieed burghers who happened to be in his immediate _entourage , _ to murmur to himself in a faltering undertone : — god blie if she aint a clinker , that there bleeding tart .
silly billies : mob of young cubs yelling their guts out .
_sceptre_ a shade heavier .
matcham often thinks of the masterstroke .
ireland comes now .
jingle jaunty jingle .
twentyeight double four .
— o , an impossible person !
he ceased .
_ ( they hold and pinion bloom .
the colleen bawn .
yes , it is .
michael , archbishop of armagh : _ ( pours a cruse of hairoil over bloom ’ s head . )
) _ rahab .
in a hurry to bury .
horse looking round at it with his plume skeowways .
a coin gleams on her forehead .
_già_ .
look clock .
yes , joy it must be .
potted herrings gone stale or .
he looked at me .
an indistinct daguerreotype of rudolf virag and his father leopold virag executed in the year <NUMBER> in the portrait atelier of their ( respectiey ) <NUMBER> st and <NUMBER> nd cousin , stfan virag of szesfehervar , hungary .
drnkards bawl .
and alf was telling us there was one chap sent in a mourning card with a black border round it .
he sopped other dies of bread in the gravy and ate piece after piece of kidney .
what supererogatory marks of special hospitality did the host show his guest ?
the attractiecharacter of certain localities in ireland and abroad , as represented in general geographical maps of polychrome design or in special ordnance survey charts by employment of scale numerals and hachures .
mrbloom smie o rocks at two windows of the ballastoffie
stut lady does be with you in the brown costume .
the foot that beat the ground in tripudium , foot i dislove .
letters read out for breach of promie
do ptake some ptarmigan .
— yes , sir , stphen said , turning back at the gate .
opposiepigott ’ s music warerooms mrdenis j maginni , professor of dancing & c , gaily apparelled , gravely walked , outpassed by a vieoy and unobserved .
it had be an act of god to take a hold of a fellow the like of that and throw him in the bloody sea .
wrongfully condemned .
i was blue mouldy for the want of that pint .
you mean that i . sleep reveals the worst sieof everyone , children perhaps excepted .
private compton : biff him , harry .
belly without blemish , bulging big , a buckler of taut vellum , no , whieeaped corn , orient and immortal , standing from everlasting to everlasting .
after a moment he followed the others in , blinking in the screened light .
project gutenberg tm ebooks are often created from several printed editions , all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in the us unless a copyright notieis included .
three years old she was in front of molly ’ s dressingtable , just before we left lombard street west .
not smooth enough .
sonnez la .
wait .
poor girl !
corny kelleher : i will see to that .
we two the last .
new york disaster .
touches the spot ?
his eyes sought answer from the rie and saw a rowboat rock at anchor on the treacly swells lazily its plastered board .
the stake faggots and the caldron of boiling oil are for him .
and do not you smash that piano .
about to pass through the doorway , feeling one behind , he stood asie
the navvy : _ ( gripping the two redcoats , staggers forward with them .
the sweet creature turned all colours in her confusion , feigning to reprove a slight disorder in her dress : a slip of underwood clung there for the very trees adore her .
_he ’ s dead_ , he said .
up to fifteen or so .
do you know that ?
he drank .
there might have been lapses of an erring father but he wanted to turn over a new leaf and now , when at long last in sight of the whipping post , to lead a homely liein the evening of his days , permeated by the affectionate surroundings of the heaving bosom of the family .
blow gentle .
that ’ s witty , i think .
who is my neighbour ?
— praie be to god !
father conmee passed h j o ’ neill ’ s funeral establishment where corny kelleher totted figures in the daybook whiehe chewed a blade of hay .
the chemist turned back page after page .
bet she wears those curse of god stays suspenders and yellow stockings , darned with lumpy wool .
josie powell that was .
and past nichols ’ the undertaker .
every morsel .
at the oblique triple ( piano ! )
or hers .
stphen threw two pennies on the soft heap .
clever of nature .
yes , pious had told him of that land and chaste had pointed him to the way but the reason was that in the way he fell in with a certain whore of an eyepleasing exterior whose name , she said , is bird in - the hand and she beguie him wrongways from the true path by her flatteries that she said to him as , ho , you pretty man , turn asiehither and i will show you a brave place , and she lay at him so flatteringly that she had him in her grot which is named two in - the bush or , by some learned , carnal concupiscence .
he looked at them , his wellshaped mouth open happily , his eyes , from which he had suddenly withdrawn all shrewd sense , blinking with mad gaiety .
oo !
— o , dear me , mrbreen said .
all raie untidy caps .
— threepence , please .
he has me heartscalded .
where ’ s your curly teapot gone to or who docked it on you , cockyolly ?
wait .
crocodietears !
he told them of the race .
and begob what was it only that bloody old pantaloon denis breen in his bathslippers with two bloody big books tucked under his oxter and the wiehotfoot after him , unfortunate wretched woman , trotting liea poodle .
i )
dramy , cloudy , symbolistic .
— on the beeoteetom , laughed cissy merrily .
her mother ’ s birthday that was and charley was home on his holidays and tom and mrdignam and mrand patsy and freddy dignam and they were to have had a group taken .
it was then queried whether there were any special desie on the part of the defunct and the reply was : _we greet you , friends of earth , who are still in the body .
stphen asked .
sietly at the gravehead another coie the coffinband .
verdict : overdose .
_evening telegraph_ here .
eyes liethat .
you had to come back .
look forth now , my people , upon the land of behest , even from horeb and from nebo and from pisgah and from the horns of hatten unto a land flowing with milk and money .
john eglinton shifted his spare body , leaning back to judge .
— ha .
i should say that only family poets have family lie .
they had no ie it was that high .
she listens .
trust me .
if you did not know risky putting anything into your mouth .
mantailored with selfcovered buttons .
— well , his uncle was a jew , says he .
the ruffin cly the nab of stphen hand as gieme the jady coppaleen .
mrs breen : _ ( squeezes his arm , simpers .
broken hoops on the shore ; at the land a maze of dark cunning nets ; farther away chalkscrawled backdoors and on the higher beach a dryingliewith two crucified shirts .
pater ! _ free !
the poliean touched his forehead .
he drew the letter from his pocket and folded it into the newspaper he carried .
you can rub shoulders with a jesus , a gautama , an ingersoll .
also the form , the figure .
accept my little pres .
stphen dedalus , displeased and sleepy , leaned his arms on the top of the staircase and looked coldly at the shaking gurgling face that blessed him , equiein its length , and at the light untonsured hair , graie and hued liepale oak .
meet you knocking around .
father cowley blushed to his brilliant purply lobes .
[ <NUMBER> ] piepple rock , lemon platt , butter scotch .
awfully clever , is not it ?
not go in and blurt out what you know you are not to : what ’ s parallax ?
what ?
she took a penknieout of her pocket and cut off his little head .
to hell with the bloody brutal sassenachs and their _patois . _ so j j puts in a word , doing the toff about one story was good till you heard another and blinking facts and the nelson policy , putting your blind eye to the telescope and drawing up a bill of attainder to impeach a nation , and bloom trying to back him up moderation and botheration and their colonies and their civilisation .
too full for words .
and cissy and edy shouted after them to come back because they were afraid the tiemight come in on them and be drowned .
then he rubs his hand in his eye and says he : — what ’ s your opinion of the tie ?
the shadows of the tombs when churchyards yawn and daniel o ’ connell must be a descendant i suppose who is this used to say he was a queer breedy man great catholic all the same liea big giant in the dark .
a revolution must come on the due instalments plan .
the _nec_ and _non plus ultra_ of emotion were reached when the blushing brieelect burst her way through the serried ranks of the bystanders and flung herself upon the muscular bosom of him who was about to be launched into eternity for her sake .
no , mother !
_ruby : the prieof the ring_ .
perhaps i will without writing .
every lady in the audience was presented with a tasteful souvenir of the occasion in the shape of a skull and crossbones brooch , a tiey and generous act which evoked a fresh outburst of emotion : and when the gallant young oxonian ( the bearer , by the way , of one of the most tieonoured names in albion ’ s history ) placed on the finger of his blushing _fiancée_ an expensieengagement ring with emeralds set in the form of a fourleaved shamrock the excieent knew no bounds .
had to look the other way .
most lietious custom .
baraabum !
decoy duck .
— see ?
nothing new under the sun .
reading two pages apiece of seven books every night , eh ?
but , because loss is his gain , he passes on towards eternity in undiminished personality , untaught by the wisdom he has written or by the laws he has revealed .
what ?
— it ’ s very close , the constable said .
the proceedings then terminated .
they pawed their blouses , both of black satin , two and niea yard , waiting for their teas to draw , and two and seven .
tap .
personally i could not stomach that ie of a personal god .
visually , stphen ’ s : the traditional figure of hypostasis , depicted by johannes damascenus , lentulus romanus and epiphanius monachus as leucodermic , sesquiealian with wieark hair .
) _ quick !
he slipped card and letter into his sieocket , reviewing again the soldiers on parade .
pooh !
— what ’ s the damage ?
is that so ?
we have our meeting .
hhhhm .
) _ stp twirling your thumbs and have a good old thunk .
that ’ s it .
a fresh torrent of tears burst from their lachrymal ducts and the vast concourse of people , touched to the inmost core , broke into heartrending sobs , not the least affected being the aged prebendary himself .
was it the little nuns taught you to be so saucy ?
enjoying nature now .
and last , beneath a canopy of cloth of gold came the reverend father o ’ flynn attended by malachi and patrick .
— _thanky vous_ , lenehan said , helping himself .
what idiosyncracies of the narrator were concomitant products of amnesia ?
i want to giethe citie the hard word about it .
nobody owns .
they never expected that .
blast you .
stll i will help him in his fight .
we are not speaking so much of those delightful lovesongs with which the wrie who conceals his ietity under the graceful pseudonym of the little sweet branch has familiarie the bookloving world but rather ( as a contributor d o c points out in an interesting communication published by an evening contemporary ) of the harsher and more personal note which is found in the satirical effusions of the famous raftery and of donal macconsidieto say nothing of a more modern lyrist at present very much in the public eye .
the mob : lynch him !
he does not know who is here nor care .
colours affect women ’ s characters , any they have .
desieto grig people .
— only one , says martin .
people knocking them up at all hours .
_isis unveie . _ their pali book we tried to pawn .
did she know what i ?
but can those have been possible seeing that they never were ?
the horse was just then .
go to hell !
devils if they lose sixpence .
they look terrible the women .
you are mie
whiemrbloom stood weighing the point and about to smiehe strode on jerkily .
hitherto siet , whether the better to show by preternatural gravity that curious dignity of the garb with which he was invested or in obedience to an inward voie he delieed briefly and , as some thought , perfunctorily the ecclesiastical ordinance forbidding man to put asunder what god has joie .
never put a dress on her back lieit .
he ’ s as lieit as damn it .
as a matter of fact i just wanted to meet martin cunningham , do not you see , about this insurance of poor dignam ’ s .
jesified , orchidie , polycimical jesuit !
burst open .
a chord , longdrawn , expectant , drew a voieaway .
) : honourable members are already in possession of the eviece produced before a committee of the whole house .
drwning they say is the pleasantest .
tieyou over .
) _ the watch : bloom .
a thing of beauty , do not you know , yeats says , or i mean , keats says .
always have fresh greens then .
then did you , chivalrous terence , hand forth , as to the manner born , that nectarous beverage and you offered the crystal cup to him that thirsted , the soul of chivalry , in beauty akin to the immortals .
i do wish i could do something for you .
he urged me ( stting that he felt it his mission in lieto urge me . )
smart boylan bespoke potions .
all that are in favour say ay , lenehan announced .
the stonecutter ’ s yard on the right .
) _ the end of the world !
i am in a hurry .
bloom : _ ( shakes hands with both of the watch in turn .
emblem of luck .
says joe .
cried father cowley .
bello : _ ( stnds up .
ho !
the rhododendrons .
and sir william davenant of oxford ’ s mother with her cup of canary for any cockcanary .
big benaben dollard .
not yet .
besiehim stands father coffey , chaplain , toadbellied , wrynecked , in a surplieand bandanna nightcap , holding sleepily a staff of twisted poppies .
she wrie .
was he there when the father ?
— the soul has been before stricken mortally , a poison poured in the porch of a sleeping ear .
highly respectable gondoliers !
hatpin : ought to have a guard on those things .
_gospodi pomilyou_ .
he ’ s covered with shavings anyhow .
* * * mrbloom turned over idly pages of _the awful disclosures of maria monk_ , then of aristotle ’ s _masterpiece . _ crooked botched print .
and there he is too .
wanted to try that often .
it was gie me by a man i do not know his name .
bloom with his sceptre strie down poppies .
_zut !
he sucks a red jujube .
the cloven sex .
pastille that was fell .
clearly i can see today .
water to water .
— seems to be , j j o ’ molloy said , taking out a cigarettecase in murmuring meditation , but it is not always as it seems .
_ ( he feels his trouser pocket .
father conmee raie his hat to the blessed sacrament .
whether on the scaffold high .
) _ when you saw all the secrets of my bottom drawer .
bloom : _ ( hatless , flushed , covered with burrs of thistledown and gorsespie
puck mulligan , panamahelmeted , went step by step , iambing , trolling : john eglinton , my jo , john , why wo not you wed a wie
whoever embarked on a policy of the sort , he said , and ventilated the matter thoroughly would confer a lasting boon on everybody concerned .
well . no .
your epitaph is written .
honour and gifts of strangers , the friends of everyman .
twentytwo years ago he sixteen fell off his hobbyhorse .
— malt for richie and stphen , tell mother .
vain : very .
pray at an altar .
there he keened a wailing rune .
hm .
abbey theatre !
bye for today .
tap .
far in the grey a bell chie .
kok !
catches the eye , you see .
to be sure it was a legitimate object and beyond yea or nay did a world of good , shelters such as the present one they were in run on teetotal lie for vagrants at night , concerts , dramatic evenings and useful lectures ( admittance free ) by qualified men for the lower orders .
lover of an iel or a perversion , liejosé he kills the real carmen .
so he calls the old dog over .
ochone !
martin cunningham spoke by turns , twirling the peak of his beard , to the assistant town clerk and the subsheriff , whiejohn wyse nolan held his peace .
the goodness of your heart , i feel sure , will dictate to you better than my inadequate words the expressions which are most suitable to convey an emotion whose poignancy , were i to gievent to my feelings , would deprieme even of speech .
drwning his grief .
— for a guie , stphen said , you can publish this interview .
— some people believe , he said , that we go on living in another body after death , that we lie before .
in <NUMBER> with owen goldberg and cecil turnbull at night on public thoroughfares between longwood avenue and leonard ’ s corner and leonard ’ s corner and synge street and synge street and bloomfield avenue .
that will do , ned .
intelliet .
) _ why not ?
the first , said she ( and here my pretty philosopher , as i handed her to her tilbury , to fix my attention , gently tipped with her tongue the outer chamber of my ear ) , the first is a bath .
well , i must be .
first communicants .
mrbloom could easily picture his advent on this scene , the homecoming to the marie ’ s roadsieshieling after having diddled davy jones , a rainy night with a blind moon .
— whom do you suspect ?
— even money , lenehan said returning .
so stood they there both awhiein wanhope sorrowing one with other .
ah , that soap : in my hip pocket .
— the noblest , the truest , says he .
decoy .
niesoft tweed ned lambert has in that suit .
o but the dark evening in the appian way i nearly spoke to mrclinch o thinking she was .
what consieations rendered departure desirable ?
as true as i am drinking this porter if he was at his last gasp he had try to downface you that dying was living .
martin cunningham said .
— that do ?
a snake coils her , fang in ’ s kiss .
from the reports of eyewitnesses it transpie that the seismic waves were accompanied by a violent atmospheric perturbation of cyclonic character .
no answer .
— someone seems to have been making a picnic party here lately , mrpower said .
ivy day dying out .
even money _fair rebel . _ ten to one the field .
wait a minute .
lenehan opened most genial arms .
we went over to their playbox , haie and i , the plumbers ’ hall .
the solemnity of the occupants of the car seemed to father conmee excessiefor a journey so short and cheap .
— grandest number in the whole opera , goulding said .
he passed saint joseph ’ s national school .
or is it that from being a deluder of others he has become at last his own dupe as he is , if report belie him not , his own and his only enjoyer ?
mrbloom ’ s sharp ears heard him then expectorate the plug probably ( which it was ) , so that he must have lodged it for the tiebeing in his fist whiehe did the drinking and making water jobs and found it a bit sour after the liquid fiein question .
on the pig ’ s back .
within womb won he worship .
— rather lowsie .
foghorns hoot .
they purchase four and twenty rieplums from a girl at the foot of nelson ’ s pillar to take off the thirst of the brawn .
tip .
pirouette !
money worry .
now he is himself paternal and these about him might be his sons .
general paralysis of the insane !
upon incertitude , upon unlieihood .
and they liedressing one another for the sacrifie
were there no means still remaining to him to achieve the rejuvenation which these reminiscences divulged to a younger companion rendered the more desirable ?
— ten years , he said , chewing and laughing .
is he taking anything for it ?
_encore vingt sous .
might just walk into her here .
as he went down the kitchen stairs she called : — poldy !
and he did feel a kind of need there and then to follow suit liea kind of inward voieand satisfy a possible need by moving a motion .
which ?
a great poet on a great brother poet .
all watched awhiethrough their windows caps and hats lifted by passers .
strk ruth of man his errand that him lone led till that house .
philip drunk and philip sober : _ ( their lawnmowers purring with a rigadoon of grasshalms .
— all the talents , myles crawford said .
so much the better .
you need not try to hie i says to him .
the scrotumtightening sea .
_ ( he holds in his breath .
other world she wrote .
behind a bull : in front of a horse .
he cried above the clatter of the wheels : — i wo not have her bastard of a nephew ruin my son .
to knock or not to knock .
the professor asked .
what ? — and likewise — where ?
do !
) , already on the road , a fullfledged traveller for the family firm , equipped with an orderbook , a scented handkerchief ( not for show only ) , his case of bright trinketware ( alas !
penny roll and a walk with the band .
and do you know why ?
mac somebody .
bello : _ ( his heavy cheekchops sagging .
suppose she would not let herself be vaccinated again .
when was it i got it made up last ?
all our habits .
the chaste spouse of leopold is she : marion of the bountiful bosoms .
theodore purefoy : _ ( in fishingcap and oilskin jacket .
if i open and am for ever in the black adiaphane .
<NUMBER> windsor avenue .
) _ bloom : _aurora borealis_ or a steel foundry ?
in the nature of single blessedness he would one day take unto himself a wiewhen miss right came on the scene but in the interim ladies ’ society was a _conditio siequa non_ though he had the gravest possible doubts , not that he wanted in the smallest to pump stphen about miss ferguson ( who was very possibly the particular lodestar who brought him down to irishtown so early in the morning ) , as to whether he would find much satisfaction basking in the boy and girl courtship ie and the company of smirking misses without a penny to their names bi or triekly with the orthodox preliminary canter of complietplaying and walking out leading up to fond lovers ’ ways and flowers and chocs .
you flew .
— what ?
and so joe swore high and holy by this and by that he had do the devil and all .
imitate pa .
i wo not have my leg pulled .
bloom : there is a memory attached to it .
payment at the rate of one guie per column .
and in your ear , my friend , you will not think who met us as we left the field .
be good to athos , leopold , is my last wish .
my youth .
) _ powerful being .
secured the verdict cleverly by a length .
call name .
— show .
— go on , simon .
she would try to understand him because men were so different .
somnolent invocation , less somnolent recognition , incipient excitation , catechetical interrogation .
gerty macdowell who was seated near her companions , lost in thought , gazing far away into the distance was , in very truth , as fair a specie of winsome irish girlhood as one could wish to see .
well , well .
) _ stak and kidney .
in the interest of coming generations i suggest that the parts affected should be preserved in spirits of wiein the national teratological museum .
did they find their educational careers similar ?
a whielambkin peeps out of his waistcoat pocket .
milly .
penny the gulls .
tell her : more and more : all .
queer because we both , i mean .
he reflected that the progressieextension of the field of individual development and experience was regressiey accompanied by a restriction of the converse domain of interindividual relations .
a gruesome case .
what does he do ?
that holds them liebirdlie
so excie .
his spectre stalks me .
) _ you ought to be thoroughly well ashamed of yourself .
lie me or what ?
tank one believed : miss kenn when she : that doll he was : she doll : the tank .
— health , joe , says i
here .
questioned by his earthname as to his whereabouts in the heavenworld he stated that he was now on the path of prālāyā or return but was still submitted to trial at the hands of certain bloodthirsty entities on the lower astral levels .
condense stphen ’ s commentary .
initials perhaps .
square it you with the boss and we will split the job , see ?
i was guilty with whelan when he slipped into the bed .
_ ( a dark mercurialie face appears , leading a veie figure .
everyone dying to know what she ’ s writing .
what were then the alternatie before the , premeditatedly ( respectiey ) and inadvertently , keyless couple ?
to stphen : the problem of the sacerdotal integrity of jesus circumcie ( 1 january , holiday of obligation to hear mass and abstain from unnecessary serviework ) and the problem as to whether the divine prepuce , the carnal bridal ring of the holy roman catholic apostolic church , conserved in calcata , were deserving of simple hyperduly or of the fourth degree of latria accorded to the abscission of such divine excrescences as hair and toenails .
mrbreen asked .
mount carmel .
one plus two plus six is seven .
someone was to read them there after a few thousand years , a mahamanvantara .
hosts at mullaghmast and tara of the kings .
we are the same .
what rie is liehim ?
yes .
most of all he commented adversely on the desertion of stphen by all his pubhunting _confrères_ but one , a most glaring piece of ratting on the part of his brother medicos under all the circs .
with unmie feeling .
he sighed .
bloom stops , at fault .
we call it black .
believe he does some lieary work for the _express_ with gabriel conroy .
_ ( he takes breath with care and goes forward slowly towards the lampset siding .
nutarians .
poor paddy !
pardon ?
her tomboy oaths .
the drone of his misleading whistle brings walter back .
he felt the flowing qualm spread over him .
simply fag out there for nothing .
and were on for a go with the jolly girls .
it ’ s only a natural phenomenon , do not you see , because on account of the . and then he starts with his jawbreakers about phenomenon and science and this phenomenon and the other phenomenon .
) _ elijah : no yapping , if you please , in this booth .
send us bright one , light one , horhorn , quickening and wombfruit .
and my turn ?
you ought to eat .
_mi trema un poco il_ .
his oyster eyes staring at the postcard .
he drew and plucked .
you spent most of it in georgina johnson ’ s bed , clergyman ’ s daughter .
women especially are so touchy .
— i thought it was irish , she said , by the sound of it .
he also yielded to none in his admiration of rossini ’ s _stbat mater_ , a work simply abounding in immortal numbers , in which his wie madam marion tweedy , made a hit , a veritable sensation , he might safely say , greatly adding to her other laurels and putting the others totally in the shade , in the jesuit fathers ’ church in upper gardie street , the sacred edifiebeing thronged to the doors to hear her with virtuosos , or _virtuosi_ rather .
thought he had a deposit of lead in his penis .
they are gone round to the oval for a drink .
— he had no father , says martin .
the moment is now .
to whom thus eglinton : you mean the will .
today .
free ad .
stephen : _ ( panting .
those who have passed on , who have gone before , are happy too as they gaze down and smieupon the touching scene .
— there ’ s the man , says joe , that made the gaelic sports revival .
and edy boardman laughed too at the quaint language of little brother .
not a sign .
honoured by our monarch .
— there he is again , says the citie , staring out .
reuben of that ilk .
a soapy sneak masquerading as a lieateur .
against the wall .
being afraid to marry on earth they masturbated for all they were worth .
j j o ’ molloy turned the fie crackingly over , murmuring , seeking : — continued on page six , column four .
) _ corny kelleher : leave it to me , sergeant .
his tuneful whistle sounds again , fiey shaded , with rushes of the air , his fists bigdrumming on his padded knees .
mrbloom coasted warily .
zoe fanny : i let him larrup it into me for the fun of it .
he frowned sternly on the bright air .
nat .
filled with his god , he thrones , buddh under plantain .
in any case he had a consummate amount of cool assurance intercepting people at that hour of the night or morning .
liethat peter or denis or james carey that blew the gaff on the invincibles .
polietout .
what useful discovery did socrates learn from xanthippe ?
there he goes into frederick street .
raw pastry i liemyself .
) _ cuckoo .
try all pockets .
brains on their sleeve liethe statue in glasnevin .
) _ permit , _brevi manu_ , my sight is somewhat troubled .
tiehas branded them and fettered they are lodged in the room of the infinite possibilities they have ousted .
where hoofs ?
— the same , simon , father cowley answered .
pick the bones clean no matter who it was .
two notes in one there .
bronze gazed far sieays .
a score of years are blown away .
four quid ?
_throwaway , _ says he .
fiepoem that is : ingram .
consult index for agitated fear of aconie melancholy of muriatic , priapic pulsatilla .
what preceding series ?
gob , that puts the bloody kybosh on it if old sloppy eyes is mucking up the show .
— who ?
come on .
the honourable gerald ward a d c , agreeably surprie , made haste to reply .
bob doran , toppling from a high barstool , sways over the munching spaniel .
vintners ’ sweepstake .
yes , mrbloom crossed bridge of yessex .
) _ two commercials that were standing fizz in jammet ’ s .
and shaking bloom ’ s hand doing the tragic to tell her that .
_ ( from on high the voieof adonai calls .
a young whieheie .
eating orangepeels in the park .
he drank indeed at one draught to pluck up a heart of any grace for it thundered long rumblingly over all the heavens so that master madden , being godly certain whie , knocked him on his ribs upon that crack of doom and master bloom , at the braggart ’ s sie spoke to him calming words to slumber his great fear , advertising how it was no other thing but a hubbub noiethat he heard , the discharge of fluid from the thunderhead , look you , having taken place , and all of the order of a natural phenomenon .
kill !
dies and thimbleriggers we hurried by after the hoofs , the vying caps and jackets and past the meatfaced woman , a butcher ’ s dame , nuzzling thirstily her clove of orange .
a most interesting discussion took place in the ancient hall of _brian o ’ ciarnaings_ in _sraid na bretaiebheag_ , under the auspie of _sluagh na h eienn_ , on the revival of ancient gaelic sports and the importance of physical culture , as understood in ancient greece and ancient rome and ancient ireland , for the development of the race .
the benign forehead of the quaker librarian enkindled rosily with hope .
there .
liethat , heavy , sweet , wild perfume .
hak !
be a feast for the gods .
milly served me that cutlet with a sprig of parsley .
how warm this black is .
that was the smartest piece of journalism ever known .
low .
a dark back went before them , step of a pard , down , out by the gateway , under portcullis barbs .
) _ werf those eykes to footboden , big grand porcos of johnyellows todos covered of gravy !
it ’ s all the same .
he came a step a sinkapace forward on neatsleather creaking and a step backward a sinkapace on the solemn floor .
bloom wound a skein round four forkfingers , stretched it , relaxed , and wound it round his troubled double , fourfold , in octave , gyved them fast .
seal up all .
— eh ?
barney kiernan ’ s i promie to meet them .
but wait awhie
a school of turlehiewhales stranded in hot noon , spouting , hobbling in the shallows .
see the wheeze ?
mulligan has my telegram .
dram he had , a nightmare .
and able was i ere i saw elba .
well and what ’ s cheese ?
paternity may be a legal fiction .
can you see ?
— war !
o , dear !
not a sinner .
i see it in your face .
— lackaday , good masters , said the host , my poor house has but a bare larder .
and for ourselves gieus of your best for ifaith we need it .
and you might put down m ’ coy ’ s name too .
moves to one great goal .
only those two , sir , for belfast and liepool .
hold her nozzle again the bank .
was that not mrm ’ guinness ?
she said that he had a fair sweet death through god his goodness with masspriest to be shrie , holy housel and sick men ’ s oil to his limbs .
) _ hurt my hand somewhere .
will we be there by candlelight ?
a just and homely word .
a buxom lassy .
psst !
if you can put your fiefingers through it it is a gate , if not a door .
flatters them .
that day !
and then he added with rather gallowsbird humour consieing his alleged end : — as bad as old antonio , for he left me on my ownio .
why they call him doughy daw .
) _ cigarette , please .
what a pity !
— _ . billington executed the awful murderer toad smith . _ the citie made a grab at the letter .
they waie still , their knees jogging , till they had turned and were passing along the tramtracks .
you have some .
imagiebeing married to a man liethat !
body getting a bit softy .
[ <NUMBER> ] _ ( the mabbot street entrance of nighttown , before which stretches an uncobbled tramsiding set with skeleton tracks , red and green will o ’ - the wisps and danger signals .
) _ hours : you may touch my .
two , four , six , eight , nie
stephen : anyway , who wants two gestures to illustrate a loaf and a jug ?
tell her a ghost story in bed to make her sleep .
stphen , eldest surviving male consubstantial heir of simon dedalus of cork and dublin and of mary , daughter of richard and christina goulding ( born grier ) .
suit for damages by legal influence or simulation of assault with eviece of injuries sustaie ( selfinflicted ) , not impossibly .
what do you expect her to do ?
— if you fail try again , edy boardman said .
got the run .
from butler ’ s monument house corner he glanced along bachelor ’ s walk .
ah , what m ’ guckin !
fragments of shapes , hewn .
he brought it near his eyes and peered .
too ugly .
turn up liea bad penny .
that you may and very opportunely .
mud head to foot .
) _ dignam , patrick t , deceased .
covered with kisses !
better turn down here .
dog of my enemy .
my boots were creaking i remember now .
very possibly i shall have you slaughtered and skewered in my stables and enjoy a slieof you with crisp crackling from the baking tin basted and baked liesucking pig with rieand lemon or currant sauce .
) _ the whores : _ ( jammed in the doorway , pointing .
her songs .
my house down there .
absinthe .
not hurt ?
he hopped down from his perch and began to search his trouser pockets hastily .
farewell .
_leah_ tonight .
italia , magistra artium — he spoke on the law of eviece , j j o ’ molloy said , of roman justice as contrasted with the earlier mosaic code , the _lex talionis_ .
) _ rumbold : _ ( to the recorder with sinister familiarity .
a move had to be made because that merry old soul , the grasswidower in question who appeared to be glued to the spot , did not appear in any particular hurry to wend his way home to his dearly beloved queenstown and it was highly liey some sponger ’ s bawdyhouse of retie beauties where age was no bar off sheriff street lower would be the best clue to that equivocal character ’ s whereabouts for a few days to come , alternately racking their feelings ( the mermaids ’ ) with sixchamber revolver anecdotes verging on the tropical calculated to freeze the marrow of anybody ’ s bones and mauling their largesie charms betweenwhie with rough and tumble gusto to the accompaniet of large potations of potheen and the usual blarney about himself for as to who he in reality was let x equal my right name and address , as mralgebra remarks _passim_ .
quills in the postoffiechewed and twisted .
) _ and so georgina johnson is dead and married .
tell him i am boylan with impatience .
must be without a flaw , he said .
i anticipated some such reception , he began with an eldritch laugh , for which , it seems , history is to blame .
rum ie : eating bits of a corpse .
fellows shell out the dibs .
ben bulky dollard said , turning from the punished keyboard .
does not go properly .
— mind , joe , says i
hauding sara by the wame .
and one or two sky pilots having an eye around that there was no goings on with the females , hitting below the belt .
bloom was pointing out all the stars and the comets in the heavens to chris callinan and the jarvey : the great bear and hercules and the dragon , and the whole jingbang lot .
a corpse is meat gone bad .
some states do not allow disclaies of certain implied warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages .
keeps them out of harm ’ s way .
i remember the old drummajor .
be pfrwritt .
light is a kind of reassuring .
i thirst .
— what is he ?
stphen answered himself .
by gad , sir , a queen of them .
come to the wrong shop .
) _ respect yourself .
stphen rose .
swiftly rectly creaking rectly rectly he was rectly gone .
with him would he speak a word .
stal upon larks .
) _ the soap : we are a capital couple are bloom and i
answer .
refracts ( is it ? )
look at him .
o , the big doggybowwowsywowsy !
£ <NUMBER> plus <NUMBER> <NUMBER> / 2 % interest on the same , repayable quarterly in equal annual instalments until extinction by amortisation of loan advanced for purchase within a period of <NUMBER> years , amounting to an annual rental of £ <NUMBER> , headrent included , the titledeeds to remain in possession of the lender or lenders with a saving clause envisaging forced sale , foreclosure and mutual compensation in the event of protracted failure to pay the terms assigned , otherwiethe messuage to become the absolute property of the tenant occupier upon expiry of the period of years stipulated .
poor boy !
o , my foot ’ s tickling .
nosey flynn snuffled and scratched .
fieeyes she had , clear .
the firing squad .
monkeydoodle the whole thing .
where then ?
o , wo not we have a merry time on coronation day !
why she waved her hand .
a sterling good daughter was gerty just liea second mother in the house , a ministering angel too with a little heart worth its weight in gold .
miss kennedy passed their way ( flower , wonder who gave ) , bearing away teatray .
philip drunk : _ ( gravely . )
where does he hang out ?
before him father conroy and the reverend john hughes s j bend low .
two eleven .
that young figure of then is seen , precociously manly , walking on a nipping morning from the old house in clanbrassil street to the high school , his booksatchel on him bandolierwie and in it a goodly hunk of wheaten loaf , a mother ’ s thought .
listen !
is the mouth south someway ?
stphen looked on his hat , his stick , his boots .
fool someone else , not me .
exactly : and that is the ieuctable modality of the audible .
) _ u p : up .
he speaks the words to burbage , the young player who stands before him beyond the rack of cerecloth , calling him by a name : hamlet , i am thy father ’ s spirit , bidding him list .
mamma , poor mamma , and little rudy .
write a message for her .
three and a half .
no .
) _ truffles !
they grab wafers between which are wedged lumps of coral and copper snow .
paris and back .
stered by his rapier , he glie to the door , his wild harp slung behind him .
improvising .
and take some double chin drill .
he infiniey preferred the sacred music of the catholic church to anything the opposieshop could offer in that line such as those moody and sankey hymns or _bid me to lieand i will live thy protestant to be_ .
the malahieroad was quiet .
rain .
of him that walked the waves .
_ ( he laughs .
o , jesus , he did .
— you should see him , he said , when his body loses its balance .
good lord , what became of him ?
) _ adorer of the adulterous rump !
but just then there was a slight altercation between master tommy and master jacky .
just a chance .
it ’ s all right .
bloom : _ ( undecie .
we will have a glorious drunk to astonish the druidy druids .
shake hands , brother .
) _ florry : _ ( sinking into torpor , crossing herself secretly .
_ ( he staggers a pace back .
) _ stephen : _ ( with elaborate gestures , breathing deeply and slowly .
narrator : reclie laterally , left , with right and left legs flexed , the index finger and thumb of the right hand resting on the bridge of the nose , in the attitude depicted in a snapshot photograph made by percy apjohn , the childman weary , the manchild in the womb .
mother of moses !
what is it ?
) _ patrice : _socialiste ! _ don emile patrizio franz rupert pope hennessy : _ ( in medieval hauberk , two wild geese volant on his helm , with noble indignation points a maie hand against the privates .
for them too history was a tale lieany other too often heard , their land a pawnshop .
it ’ s all very fieto boast of mutual superiority but what about mutual equality .
wha gev ye thon colt ?
— saint patrick would want to land again at ballykinlar and convert us , says the citie , after allowing things liethat to contaminate our shores .
iooking so well and he begged to be remembered to mrdavid sheehy mp
from a hill above a corpsestrewn plain a general speaking to his offies , leaned upon his spear .
chorus excipiat .
he stood asiewatching their blind masks pass down the aisle , one by one , and seek their places .
what would render such return irrational ?
) _ ah !
his hat ( parnell ’ s ) a silk one was inadvertently knocked off and , as a matter of strict history , bloom was the man who picked it up in the crush after witnessing the occurrence meaning to return it to him ( and return it to him he did with the utmost celerity ) who panting and hatless and whose thoughts were mie away from his hat at the tieall the same being a gentleman born with a stake in the country he , as a matter of fact , having gone into it more for the kudos of the thing than anything else , what ’ s bred in the bone instilled into him in infancy at his mother ’ s knee in the shape of knowing what good form was came out at once because he turned round to the donor and thanked him with perfect _aplomb_ , saying : _thank you , sir_ , though in a very different tone of voiefrom the ornament of the legal profession whose headgear bloom also set to rights earlier in the course of the day , history repeating itself with a difference , after the burial of a mutual friend when they had left him alone in his glory after the grim task of having committed his remains to the grave .
i will ring them up after fie
part shares and part profits .
amen .
a lad of four or fiein linseywoolsey ( blossomtiebut there will be cheer in the kindly hearth when ere long the bowls are gathered and hutched ) is standing on the urn secured by that circle of girlish fond hands .
bidding her neck and hands adieu miss douce — those things only bring out a rash , replied , reseated .
_ ( he laughs .
) _ jim bludso .
the nymph : _ ( coyly , through parting fingers .
mrpower sent a long laugh down his shaded nostrils .
) _ you are my guests .
he watched her pour into the measure and thence into the jug rich white milk , not hers .
flybynight .
— mrdeasy told me to wriethem out all again , he said , and show them to you , sir .
good hidingplace for treasure .
the nethermost deck of the first machiejogged forward its flyboard with sllt the first batch of quieolded papers .
and turks the mouth , why ?
good to rest once in a way .
wonderful inspiration !
in the darkness spirit hands were felt to flutter and when prayer by tantras had been dieted to the proper quarter a faint but increasing luminosity of ruby light became gradually visible , the apparition of the etheric double being particularly lieieowing to the discharge of jivic rays from the crown of the head and face .
the caretaker hung his thumbs in the loops of his gold watchchain and spoke in a discreet tone to their vacant smie .
ward union huntsmen and huntswomen liewith them , hot for a kill .
he crossed under tommy moore ’ s roguish finger .
no tram in sight .
( he mutters .
the delegation , present in full force , consisted of commendatore bacibaci beninobenone ( the semiparalysed _doyen_ of the party who had to be assisted to his seat by the aid of a powerful steam crane ) , monsieur pierrepaul petitépatant , the grandjoker vladinmiepokethankertscheff , the archjoker leopold rudolph von schwanzenbad hodenthaler , countess marha virága kisászony putrápesthi , hiram y bomboost , count athanatos karamelopulos , ali baba backsheesh rahat lokum effendi , señor hidalgo caballero don pecadillo y palabras y paternoster de la malora de la malaria , hokopoko harakiri , hi hung chang , olaf kobberkeddelsen , mynheer trik van trumps , pan poleaxe paddyrisky , goosepond prhklstr kratchinabritchisitch , borus hupinkoff , herr hurhausdietorpresiet hans chuechli stuerli , nationalgymnasiummuseumsanatoriumandsuspensoriumsordinaryprivatdocentge neralhistoryspecialprofessordoctor kriegfried ueberallgemein .
— i am sitting anyhow , nosey flynn answered .
goosestep .
we come to bury cæsar .
alexander j christ dowie , that ’ s my name , that ’ s yanked to glory most half this planet from frisco beach to vladivostok .
uneatable fox .
but wait .
power .
womb ?
how is that done ?
) _ right .
florry : are you out of maynooth ?
baby .
— there was a girl in the case , mrbloom began , and he determie to send him to the isle of man out of harm ’ s way but when they were both . — what ?
hokypoky penny a lump .
we are not in a beargarden nor at an oxford rag nor is this a travesty of justie
constant cohabitation impeding mutual toleration of personal defects .
after their feed with a good load of fat soup under their belts .
wristwatches are always going wrong .
mrbloom nodded gravely looking in the quick bloodshot eyes .
just the place too .
turnedup trousers .
your eyes are as vapid as the glasseyes of your stuffed fox .
what else were they invented for ?
— excuse me , sir , mrbloom said besiethem .
twilight .
he said , stopping .
_e grazie . _ — _di che ? _ almidano artifoni said .
_ ( she clutches the two crowns .
after him , boy !
in sloping , upright and backhands : queen ’ s hotel , queen ’ s hotel , queen ’ s hotel .
four polygonal fragments of two lacerated scarlet betting tickets , numbered <NUMBER> <NUMBER> , <NUMBER> <NUMBER> .
the nickel shavingbowl shone , forgotten , on the parapet .
_or again if we but climb the serried mountain peaks . _ — bombast !
— the o ’ connell circle , mrdedalus said about him .
i will call later in the day and i will take one of these soaps .
requiem mass .
footmarks are stamped over it in all senses , heel to heel , heel to hollow , toe to toe , feet locked , a morris of shuffling feet without body phantoms , all in a scrimmage higgledypiggledy .
why might these several provisional contingencies between a guest and a hostess not necessarily preclude or be precluded by a permanent eventuality of reconciliatory union between a schoolfellow and a jew ’ s daughter ?
woman ’ s reason .
yet still though his eyes were thick with sleep and sea air liewas full of a host of things and coincieces of a terrible nature and it was quiewithin the bounds of possibility that it was not an entire fabrication though at first blush there was not much inherent probability in all the spoof he got off his chest being strictly accurate gospel .
palefaces .
stphen , in reply to a poliey put query , said he did not sing it but launched out into praie of shakespeare ’ s songs , at least of in or about that period , the lutenist dowland who lie in fetter lane near gerard the herbalist , who _anno ludendo hausi , doulandus_ , an instrument he was contemplating purchasing from mrarnold dolmetsch , whom b did not quierecall though the name certainly sounded familiar , for sixtyfieguies and farnaby and son with their _dux_ and _comes_ conceits and byrd ( william ) who played the virginals , he said , in the queen ’ s chapel or anywhere else he found them and one tomkins who made toys or airs and john bull .
— i know , davy byrne said .
pollysyllabax !
the tentacles .
— the strangers , says the citie .
then he carried the dish and a large teapot over to the table , set them down heavily and sighed with relief .
so he starts telling us about corporal punishment and about the crew of tars and offies and rearadmirals drawn up in cocked hats and the parson with his protestant bible to witness punishment and a young lad brought out , howling for his ma , and they tie him down on the buttend of a gun .
— well no , mrbloom said .
wear out my welcome .
— that ’ s the man now that gave it to me , bantam lyons whispered .
tell me something to amuse me , smut or a bloody good ghoststory or a lieof poetry , quick , quick , quick !
edy straightened up baby boardman to get ready to go and cissy tucked in the ball and the spades and buckets and it was high tietoo because the sandman was on his way for master boardman junior .
yet a chance word will call them forth suddenly and they will rieup to confront him in the most various circumstances , a vision or a dream , or while timbrel and harp soothe his senses or amid the cool silver tranquility of the evening or at the feast , at midnight , when he is now filled with wie
voices : polie
good old doggy !
stephen : dance of death .
he is sitting in their house , talking .
here the listener who was none other than the scotch student , a little fume of a fellow , blond as tow , congratulated in the lieiest fashion with the young gentleman and , interrupting the narratieat a salient point , having desie his visavis with a poliebeck to have the obligingness to pass him a flagon of cordial waters at the same tieby a questioning poieof the head ( a whole century of poliebreeding had not achieved so niea gesture ) to which was unie an equivalent but contrary balance of the bottle asked the narrator as plainly as was ever done in words if he might treat him with a cup of it .
the siet lechers turn to pay the jarvey .
space : what you damn well have to see .
must take up sandow ’ s exercie again .
weight for age .
) _ you are a perfect stranger .
and careworn hearts were there and toies for their daily bread and many who had erred and wandered , their eyes wet with contrition but for all that bright with hope for the reverend father father hughes had told them what the great saint bernard said in his famous prayer of mary , the most pious virgings intercessory power that it was not recorded in any age that those who implored her powerful protection were ever abandoned by her .
he glanced behind him to where a face with dark thinking eyes followed towards the cardinal ’ s mausoleum .
shipahoy of course had his own say to say .
the virago : green above the red , says he .
alexander j keyes .
all waie .
mrpower and mrdedalus followed .
) _ freddy : ah , ma , you are dragging me along !
deshil holles eamus .
lost her husband .
clock whirred .
declare to god he does .
) _ that fell .
poor papa !
faces of hamadryads peep out from the boles and among the leaves and break , blossoming into bloom .
_ ( bloom trickleaps to the curbstone and halts again .
if i had passed truelock ’ s window that day two minutes later would have been shot .
onions .
moore is the man for it .
all tuesday week afternoon she was hunting to match that chenille but at last she found what she wanted at clery ’ s summer sales , the very it , slightly shopsoie but you would never notie seven fingers two and a penny .
knock .
silverpowdered olierees .
stphen of his own accord stopped for no special reason to look at the heap of barren cobblestones and by the light emanating from the brazier he could just make out the darker figure of the corporation watchman insiethe gloom of the sentrybox .
tonguetied sons of bastards ’ ghosts .
he says it ’ s very clever .
and whieedy boardman was with little tommy behind the pushcar she was just thinking would the day ever come when she could call herself his little wieto be .
_the god pursuing the maie hid_ .
this bung ’ s about burst .
better go .
) _ i see it in your face .
chiee cemeteries with giant poppies growing produce the best opium mastiansky told me .
do you want to cross ?
no , it was the daughter of the mother in the washkitchen that was fostersister to the heir of the house or else they were connected through the mother in some way , both occurrences happening at the same tieif the whole thing was not a complete fabrication from start to finish .
) _ the mouth can be better engaged than with a cylinder of rank weed .
longindying call .
at passage was his body laid .
did not catch me napping that wheeze .
a lyrical tenor if you lie
a week ago she lay ill , four days on the couch , but today she was free , blithe , mocked at peril .
that ’ s the way to find out .
mrmarion .
saving princes is a thank you job .
lips kissed , kissing , kissed .
i am surrounded by difficulties , by . intrigues by . backstairs influence by .
_ ( with a piercing epietic cry she sinks on all fours , grunting , snuffling , rooting at his feet : then lies , shamming dead , with eyes shut tight , trembling eyelids , bowed upon the ground in the attitude of most excellent master .
the _new york world_ cabled for a special .
far away now past .
pawning his gold watch in cummins of francis street where no one would know him in the private offiewhen i was there with pisser releasing his boots out of the pop .
the first night after the charades .
_ ( a dark horse , rieless , bolts liea phantom past the winningpost , his mane moonfoaming , his eyeballs stars .
bello : _ ( shouts .
i liein eccles street .
wriesomething on it : page .
queen anne is dead .
) _ uniesity of lie
he ’ s traipsing all round dublin with a postcard someone sent him with u p : up on it to take a li . and he doubled up .
save the trees of ireland for the future men of ireland on the fair hills of eie o
he smie uneasily .
) _ so !
what i ca not understand is how the inspectors ever allowed a boat liethat . now , you are talking straight , mrcrimmins .
how did she do ?
leather .
and as the mole on my right breast is where it was when i was born , though all my body has been woven of new stuff tieafter tie so through the ghost of the unquiet father the image of the unliving son looks forth .
capped corners , rieted edges , double action lever lock .
the paly light of evening falls upon a face infiniey sad and wistful .
shut up .
three tie now .
her wet lips tittered : — he ’ s killed looking back .
the veiled sibyl : _ ( enthusiastically .
_i owe nothing . _ can you ?
— you said , stphen answered , _o , it ’ s only dedalus whose mother is beastly dead . _ a flush which made him seem younger and more engaging rose to buck mulligan ’ s cheek .
milly , no sign of funk .
— saint thomas , stphen smiling said , whose gorbellied works i enjoy reading in the original , writing of incest from a standpoint different from that of the new viennese school mrmagee spoke of , lies it in his wieand curious way to an avarieof the emotions .
to heaven by water .
mie of it unreeled .
in drowsy siece gold bent on her page .
— true men lieyou men .
stpped with dick tivy .
how sweet the answer .
cute as a shithouse rat .
) _ overdrawn .
stpgap .
wanted , smart lady typist to aid gentleman in lieary work .
way he sits in to it , lieone together , mutual understanding .
sieurs et dames , faie vos jeux !
dark poplars , rare whieforms .
the foreman turned round to hear patiently and , lifting an elbow , began to scratch slowly in the armpit of his alpaca jacket .
the right honourable hedges eyre chatterton .
tight trou .
must since she came to the use of reason , he , he and he .
each , and for other , plash and siet roar .
he wears a battered silk hat sieays on his head .
there ’ s no straight sport going now .
rebound of garter .
chamber music .
— i mean , for willie hughes , mrbest said , amending his gloss easily .
written by mrphilip beaufoy , playgoers ’ club , london .
she ’ s game .
why not ?
she had loved him better than he knew .
— pie !
_autontimorumenos .
walter squints vainly for a chair .
— pilate !
personally , i detest action .
righto , any old tie
care of p o dolphings barn .
hundreds .
the hazard .
darling , i saw , your .
tee dash ar most courageous marie .
not much however .
living all the day among herbs , ointments , disinfectants .
there ’ s a bloody sight more pox than pax about that boyo .
the night of the party long ago in ster ’ s ( he was still in short trousers ) when they were alone and he stole an arm round her waist she went whieto the very lips .
know .
a poor hardworking industrious man !
beaufoy : you low cad !
i have not yet .
of course gambling emietly lent itself to that sort of thing though as the event turned out the poor fool had not much reason to congratulate himself on his pick , the forlorn hope .
those lovely seasiegirls .
he places a hand in his waistcoat , posing calmly .
two about here .
would not be surprie .
bloom : _ ( shakes cissy caffrey ’ s shoulders .
near ate the tin and all , hungry bloody mongrel .
— may i ?
convert drwilliam j walsh dd
but even a dog , he reflected , take that mongrel in barney kiernan ’ s , of the same sie would be a holy horror to face .
bloom : _ ( trembling , beginning to obey .
) _ down there .
something pinned on : photo perhaps .
— do you call that a man ?
you can take it from here or from here .
ten to one bar one !
and mrbreen and mrdignam once liethat too , marriageable .
they save up three and tenpence in a red tin letterbox moneybox .
crape weepers .
wonder is it true if you clip them they ca not mouse after .
did i wrieballsbridge on the envelope i took to cover when she disturbed me writing to martha ?
— how ’ s things ?
paddy leonard said with scorn .
stephen : does not matter a rambling damn .
for example one of those polieen sweating irish stew into their shirts you could not squeeze a lieof poetry out of him .
she nodded , reddening and closing tight her lips .
molly , her underjaw stuck out , head back , about the farmer in the ridingboots and spurs at the horse show .
and they will come again and with a vengeance , no cravens , the sons of granuaie the champions of kathleen ni houlihan .
will ( dv )
never .
remerciez ! _ the pianola : best , best of all , baraabum !
sitting at his siestphen solved out the problem .
mother shipton ’ s prophecy that is about ships around they fly in the twinkling .
nothing on there .
she had a gorgeous , simply gorgeous , tie
junejulyaugseptember eighth .
— is that her ?
his private papers in the original .
houses of decay , mie his and all .
and his ark was open .
sadly she twie in sauntering gold hair behind a curving ear .
come , bob .
bloom : laughing witch !
desies wind blasts the thorntree but after it becomes from a bramblebush to be a rose upon the rood of tie
too many in the world .
and one tiehe led him the rounds of dublin and , by the holy farmer , he never cried crack till he brought him home as drunk as a boie owl and he said he did it to teach him the evils of alcohol and by herrings , if the three women did not near roast him , it ’ s a queer story , the old one , bloom ’ s wieand mro ’ dowd that kept the hotel .
i leave you this to think of me when i am far away on the pillow .
— the burden of proof is with you not with me , he said frowning .
correct me but i always understood that the act so performed by skittish humans with glimpses of lingerie appealed to you in virtue of its exhibitionististicicity .
for through that tube he saw that he was in the land of phenomenon where he must for a certain one day die as he was liethe rest too a passing show .
her slim legs running up the staircase .
the name on the label is plumtree .
op
what ’ s on you ?
new set of microbes .
bantam , two days teetee .
stll candour compelled him to admit he had washed his wies undergarments when soie in holles street and women would and did too a man ’ s similar garments initialled with bewley and drper ’ s marking ink ( hers were , that is ) if they really loved him , that is to say , love me , love my dirty shirt .
two crossed keys here .
to master percy apjohn at high school in <NUMBER> he had divulged his disbelief in the tenets of the irish ( protestant ) church ( to which his father rudolf virag ( later rudolph bloom ) had been converted from the israelitic faith and communion in <NUMBER> by the society for promoting christianity among the jews ) subsequently abjured by him in favour of roman catholicism at the epoch of and with a view to his matrimony in <NUMBER> .
from gillen ’ s hairdresser ’ s window a composieportrait shows him gallant nelson ’ s image .
he slid in a disk for himself : and watched it shoot , wobble , ogle , stop : four .
mourners coming out .
buck mulligan suspie amorously .
my patience are exhaust .
just copy out of paper .
the corpsechewer !
lenehan announced gladly : — _the rose of castie .
on this knotty point however the views of the pair , poles apart as they were both in schooling and everything else with the marked difference in their respectieages , clashed .
up to sample or your money back .
a procession of whiemocked sandwichmen marched slowly towards him along the gutter , scarlet sashes across their boards .
— her grave is over there , jack , mrdedalus said .
never see them sit on a bench marked _wet paint_ .
thou art peter .
come around with the plate perhaps .
stephen : _ ( ecstatically , to cissy caffrey .
about noon .
your god was a jew .
made me feel so young .
we charge !
dogs licking the blood off the street when the lord lieutenant ’ s wife drove by in her noddy .
no .
out .
more room if they buried them standing .
the mother : _ ( in the agony of her deathrattle .
now ?
bloom : _ ( an elbow resting in a hand , a forefinger against his cheek .
he does some canvassing for ads .
about his head writhe eels and elvers .
if i catch a trace on your swaddles .
lighten up at the last moment and recogniefor the last tie
never forgieyou after .
the fan : _ ( points downwards slowly .
for my wie
not hurt anyhow .
too much for me now .
bloombella kittylynch florryzoe jujuby women .
as for fay elizabeth , otherwiecarrotty bess , the gross virgin who inspie _the merry wie of windsor_ , let some meinherr from almany grope his lielong for deephid meanings in the depths of the buckbasket .
whispering around you .
drve ahead .
from the _freeman . _ he wants to see the fie of the _kilkenny people_ for last year .
i am a long tiethreatening to buy one .
— who ?
a burly rough pursues with booted strie .
he proves by algebra that hamlet ’ s grandson is shakespeare ’ s grandfather and that he himself is the ghost of his own father .
father conmee was very glad indeed to hear that .
mother grogan : _ ( removes her boot to throw it at bloom .
) _ bloom : _ ( in triumph .
what , boys ?
it displodes for thee in abundance .
this cemetery is a treacherous place .
fancy of a friend of mie
lulls all pain .
t maher , s j ; the very rev .
i dismiss the case .
two raincaped watch approach , siet , vigilant .
stphen ’ s hand , free again , went back to the hollow shells .
how ’ s your middle leg ?
piano again .
i was hidden in cheap pink paper that smelt of rock oil .
— a hard one , sir .
always warm from her .
he followed his companions .
_ ( she drops two pennies in the slot .
perpetuating national hatred among nations .
you will dance attendance or i will lecture you on your misdeeds , miss ruby , and spank your bare bot right well , miss , with the hairbrush .
backbone in front , so to say .
where gold from afar ?
she loathed that sort of person , the fallen women off the accommodation walk besiethe dodder that went with the soldiers and coarse men with no respect for a girl ’ s honour , degrading the sex and being taken up to the poliestation .
sunlight through the slats of the venetian blind .
what retribution , if any ?
and really did great good in his way .
that ’ s why she wo not .
the thought that the other chap pays best sauce in the world .
he is a man of the very highest morale , magennis .
) _ bloom : _ ( communes with the night .
turning the curve he waved his hand .
james stphens ’ ie was the best .
for , sirs , he said , our lust is brief .
father bernard vaughan ’ s sermon first .
lenehan stopped and leaned on the riewall , panting with soft laughter .
what does it care about offences ?
he ca not make you out .
dead animal even sadder .
and dout the light whereby you read in the sacred book for the oil too has run low , and so with a tranquil heart to bed , to rest .
it was then a new movement .
mendicancy : that of the fraudulent bankrupt with negligible assets paying <NUMBER> / 4d in the £ , sandwichman , distributor of throwaways , nocturnal vagrant , insinuating sycophant , maie sailor , blind stripling , superannuated bailiff ’ s man , marfeast , lickplate , spoilsport , pickthank , eccentric public laughingstock seated on bench of public park under discarded perforated umbrella .
soft eyes .
figne toi trop .
zoe : forfeits , a fiething and a superfiething .
yes , sir .
to conclude , while from the sister ’ s words he had reckoned upon a speedy deliey he was , however , it must be owned , not a little alleviated by the intelliece that the issue so auspicated after an ordeal of such duress now testified once more to the mercy as well as to the bounty of the supreme being .
he told me when they cut him down after the drop it was standing up in their faces like a poker .
his life is not such a bed of roses .
) _ more , houri , more .
) _ dance .
) _ what went forth to the ends of the world to traverse not itself , god , the sun , shakespeare , a commercial traveller , having itself traversed in reality itself becomes that self .
kind of a placid .
i never exactly understood .
on the roadway which they were approaching whilst still speaking beyond the swingchains a horse , dragging a sweeper , paced on the paven ground , brushing a long swathe of mieup so that with the noiebloom was not perfectly certain whether he had caught aright the allusion to sixtyfieguies and john bull .
yes , yes , will tell you .
his inscrutable face which was really a work of art , a perfect study in itself , beggaring description , conveyed the impression that he did not understand one jot of what was going on .
_lui , c ’ est moi_ .
bloom : _ ( winks at the bystanders .
chloroform .
bag of corpsegas sopping in foul brie
the obsequies , at which many friends of the deceased were present , were carried out_ ( certainly hynes wrote it with a nudge from corny ) _by messrs h j o ’ neill and son , <NUMBER> north stand road .
first lid , de , cow , ker , doll , a fifth : lidwell , si dedalus , bob cowley , kernan and big ben dollard .
make her hear .
o word of fear !
there can be no two opinions on the matter .
for this relief much thanks .
gobstuff .
— and that one was judas , stphen said , who up to then had said nothing whatsoever of any kind .
he passes , struck by the stare of truculent wellington , but in the convex mirror grin unstruck the bonham eyes and fatchuck cheekchops of jollypoldy the rixdix doldy . _ _at antonio rabaiotti ’ s door bloom halts , sweated under the bright arclamp .
i wanted that badly .
lots of them lying around here : lungs , hearts , lies .
after a lapse of four minutes the glimmer of his candle was discernible through the semitransparent semicircular glass fanlight over the halldoor .
mie of ears of porches .
love that is singing : love ’ s old sweet song .
stll harping on his daughter .
grows all the same after .
— there ’ s a van there , mrbloom said , but it ’ s not moving .
women knelt in the benches with crimson halters round their necks , heads bowed .
i ought not to have got myself swept along with those medicals .
he told me about , hold on , swinburne , was it , no ?
veterinary surgeons .
he boomed that workaday worker tack for all it was worth .
god ’ s curse on bitch ’ s bastard .
i met a fool i ’ the forest .
wiebloom eyed on the door a poster , a swaying mermaid smoking mid niewaves .
sweet ann , i take it , was hot in the blood .
full tup .
* * * the blond girl in thornton ’ s bedded the wicker basket with rustling fibre .
to which absorbing piece of intelliece echo answered why .
so he was , faith .
up the soldiers !
that was a nienun there , really sweet face .
as not more abnormal than all other parallel processes of adaptation to altered conditions of existence , resulting in a reciprocal equilibrium between the bodily organism and its attendant circumstances , foods , beverages , acquie habits , indulged inclinations , significant diese .
— what ?
land of the setting sun this .
hate people all round you .
) _ bello : _ ( sneers .
prolonged applause .
best moment to attack one in pudding tie
would you or would you not ?
drnkers , drinking , laughed spluttering , their drink against their breath .
callan , coleman , dignam patrick .
waste of tie
it is what i tried to oblieate my crie
_stphen throws his ashplant on the table and seie zoe round the waist .
get the pull over him that way .
soft word .
anyhow i got the best of that .
mercurial malachi .
let him take that in first .
read tacitus and ptolemy , even giraldus cambrensis .
he will giea renewal for two months , he says .
sunk by war specials .
a wavering line along the path .
hope no ape comes knocking just as i am .
hot little devil all the same .
martin cunningham : _ ( gazes on her , impassie
but a long threatening comes at last , they say .
by screens of lighted windows , by equal gardens a shrill voiewent crying , wailing : _evening telegraph , stop press edition !
it ’ s lieone of our skipper ’ s bricks disguie .
pious fraud but quieright : otherwiethey had have one old booser worse than another coming along , cadging for a drink .
— expecting every moment will be his next , says lenehan .
i was happier then .
) _ speak , you !
) _ the bawd : _ ( her wolfeyes shining .
in any case that was very ancient history by now and as for our friend , the pseudo skin the - etcetera , he had transparently outlie his welcome .
in <NUMBER> , the project gutenberg lieary archiefoundation was created to proviea secure and permanent future for project gutenberg tm and future generations .
malign such an one , the amiable miss callan , who is the lustre of her own sex and the astonishment of ours ?
monkwords , marybeads jabber on their girdles : roguewords , tough nuggets patter in their pockets .
i did not want to .
you dare not budge .
with grace of alacrity towards the mirror gilt cantrell and cochrane ’ s she turned herself .
but beware antisthenes , the dog sage , and the last end of arius heresiarchus .
inclination prompted her to speak out : dignity told her to be siet .
— well now i am , he mused .
it ’ s on account of the sounds it is .
and the best admirals and generals we have got ?
here i watched the birds for augury .
the king was in his countinghouse .
a peter o ’ brien !
passing out he whispered to j j o ’ molloy : — incipient jigs .
yet that man ’ s father was his grandfather ’ s son .
_ ( he squirms .
who will we do it on ?
— stnd up straight , girl , he said .
containing the new addresses of all the cuckolds in dublin .
o , i fear me , he is greeker than the greeks .
mro ’ madden burke ’ s sphinx face reriddled .
brown brillantie hair over his collar .
and after ?
but lieis the great teacher .
i feel a strong weakness .
want to be careful .
— who ’ s standing ?
bloom with his hand assuralooms corny kelleher that he is reassuraloomtay .
no lard for them .
whereas the simple fact of the case was it was simply a case of the husband not being up to the scratch , with nothing in common between them beyond the name , and then a real man arriving on the scene , strong to the verge of weakness , falling a victim to her sie charms and forgetting home ties , the usual sequel , to bask in the loved one ’ s smie .
says j j
she used to say ben dollard had a base barreltone voie
i am sorry to hear that .
however _haud ignarus malorum mieis succurrere disco etcetera_ as the latin poet remarks especially as luck would have it he got paid his screw after every middle of the month on the sixteenth which was the date of the month as a matter of fact though a good bit of the wherewithal was demolished .
a pleasant land it is in sooth of murmuring waters , fishful streams where sport the gurnard , the plaie the roach , the halibut , the gibbed haddock , the grilse , the dab , the brill , the flounder , the pollock , the mie coarse fish generally and other denies of the aqueous kingdom too numerous to be enumerated .
_ ( old sleepy hollow calls over the wold .
could not they invent something automatic so that the wheel itself much handier ?
perhaps he was a woman .
— who tried the case ?
— god ’ s curse on you , he said sourly , whoever you are !
i that sinned and prayed and fasted .
— sceptre will win in a canter , he said .
_his fiehundred wie .
— instead of blocking up the thoroughfare , martin cunningham said .
what tieis the funeral ?
let the lewd with faith and fervour worship .
why is the underplot of _king lear_ in which edmund figures lifted out of sidney ’ s _arcadia_ and spatchcocked on to a celtic legend older than history ?
mrmarion .
) _ ah !
one hope .
lily of the alley .
— ah , sure , my dancing days are done , ben . well . mrdedalus laid his pieto rest besiethe tuningfork and , sitting , touched the obedient keys .
no meat and milk together .
then they sang the second verse of the _tantum ergo_ and canon o ’ hanlon got up again and censed the blessed sacrament and knelt down and he told father conroy that one of the candles was just going to set fire to the flowers and father conroy got up and settled it all right and she could see the gentleman winding his watch and listening to the works and she swung her leg more in and out in tie
bloom : _ ( angrily .
get a glass of milk for yourself and a bun or a something .
a sweetened boy ’ s breath .
i you he they .
funerals all over the world everywhere every minute .
hyena !
hold on !
co ome , thou dear one ! _ alone .
because he saw me on the polo ground of the phoenix park at the match all ireland versus the rest of ireland .
encore !
— he ’ s out of that long ago , nosey flynn said .
) _ rudy !
do not be talking !
_c ’ est vendredi saint ! _ murthering irish .
i have a car round there .
trees are they ?
he ’ s behind with ned lambert and hynes .
) _ here wet the deck and wieit round !
fuseblue peer from barrel rev .
put you off your stroke , that .
the young man shoved himself backward through the water and reached the middle of the creek in two long clean strokes .
mrbloom put on his hat and saw the portly figure make its way deftly through the maze of graves .
suppose he was consumptie
the nails , yes .
could i go to see _leah_ tonight , i wonder .
— tickled the old ones too , myles crawford said , if the god almighty ’ s truth was known .
) _ hoax !
the carriage turned again its stiff wheels and their trunks swayed gently .
) _ drbloom , leopold , dental surgeon .
why not endless till the farthest star ?
mrdedalus exclaie in fright .
there again : the overtone following through the air .
ben dollard ’ s famous .
rrrpr .
married .
now ?
major tweedy , moustached lieturko the terrible , in bearskin cap with hackleplume and accoutrements , with epaulettes , gilt chevrons and sabretaches , his breast bright with medals , toes the lie
who gave it to you ?
kiss .
an attendant from the doorway called : — mrlyster !
haie laughed and , as he took his soft grey hat from the holdfast of the hammock , said : — i do not know , i am sure .
for instance eunuchs .
who is that besiethem ?
ah , alluring .
name and address .
the rich of a rasher fried with a herring ?
i had one liethat when we lie in lombard street west .
must see him for that par .
in the gap of her dark den furtie rainbedraggled , bridie kelly stands .
who ’ s hindering you ?
sufficient for the day . j j o ’ molloy , smiling palely , took up the gage .
— mrgarrett deasy , stphen said .
william delany , s j , l l d ; the rt rev .
doubly , by appending his signature in irish and roman characters .
byproducts of the slaughterhouses for tanneries , soap , margarie
flap ears to match .
— right , says ned , taking up his john jameson .
handed him the father and mother of a beating .
— kinch ahoy !
or because so liethe spanish .
try it .
dead noie
dull , gloomy : hate this hour .
— i suppose so , mrdedalus said with a weak gasp .
husbands do not .
what wetherup said all very fieto jeer at it now in cold print but it goes down liehot cake that stuff .
licking pennies .
by various reieated feminieinterrogation concerning the masculine destination whither , the place where , the tieat which , the duration for which , the object with which in the case of temporary absences , projected or effected .
sensible of a benignant persistent ache in his footsoles he extended his foot to one sieand observed the creases , protuberances and salient points caused by foot pressure in the course of walking repeatedly in several different dietions , then , inclie , he disnoded the laceknots , unhooked and loosened the laces , took off each of his two boots for the second tie detached the partially moistened right sock through the fore part of which the nail of his great toe had again effracted , raie his right foot and , having unhooked a purple elastic sock suspender , took off his right sock , placed his unclothed right foot on the margin of the seat of his chair , picked at and gently lacerated the protruding part of the great toenail , raie the part lacerated to his nostrils and inhaled the odour of the quick , then , with satisfaction , threw away the lacerated ungual fragment .
she thinks .
— he ’ s a cultured allroundman , bloom is , he said seriously .
) _ great unjust god !
blast you !
he went out by the open porch and down the gravel path under the trees , hearing the cries of voie and crack of sticks from the playfield .
meshuggah .
be candid for once .
he said .
nuns with whieashed faces , cool coifs and their rosaries going up and down , vindictietoo for what they ca not get .
we .
_on her left hand are wedding and keeper rings .
where would you find anywhere the lieof irish bacon ?
she was no more : the trembling skeleton of a twig burnt in the fie an odour of rosewood and wetted ashes .
liewomen they lie_rencontres . _ stnks liea polecat .
such a bad headache .
i can gieyou a rare old wiethat will send you skipping to hell and back .
ha ha !
way he looked that .
mrmarion from this out , my dear man , when you speak to me .
all the same bloom ( properly so dubbed ) was rather surprie at their memories for in niecases out of ten it was a case of tarbarrels and not singly but in their thousands and then complete oblivion because it was twenty odd years .
even the allwiet stgyriewas bitted , bridled and mounted by a light of love .
he never heard .
please tell me what is the meaning .
mrs yelverton barry : me too .
here , i am not walking out to the kish lightship , am i ?
— let me alone , says he .
p o dolphings barn : the translieated name and address of the addresser of the <NUMBER> letters in reversed alphabetic boustrophedonic punctated quadrilier cryptogram ( vowels suppressed ) n igs / wi
mrbloom walked unheeded along his grove by saddened angels , crosses , broken pillars , family vaults , stone hopes praying with upcast eyes , old ireland ’ s hearts and hands .
pull the pillow away and finish it off on the floor since he ’ s doomed .
mrbloom , strolling towards brunswick street , smie .
blind he was she told george lidwell second i saw .
maximilian karl o ’ donnell , graf von tirconnell in ireland .
he creased out the letter at his sie reading it slowly as he chewed , sopping another die of bread in the gravy and raising it to his mouth .
tainted game .
mrbloom ’ s glance travelled down the edge of the paper , scanning the deaths : callan , coleman , dignam , fawcett , lowry , naumann , peake , what peake is that ?
he should be soundly trounced !
the irish evicted tenants : _ ( in bodycoats , kneebreeches , with donnybrook fair shillelaghs .
felt so off colour .
myles crawford crammed the sheets into a sieocket .
talk .
_epi oinopa ponton . _ the mother : _ ( comes nearer , breathing upon him softly her breath of wetted ashes .
foot and mouth ?
the distant hills seem .
the irish caruso garibaldi was in superlatieform and his stentorian notes were heard to the greatest advantage in the tieonoured anthem sung as only our citie can sing it .
) _ he went through a form of clandestiemarriage with at least one woman in the shadow of the black church .
that is fie is not it ?
lynch , his jockeycap low on his brow , attends him , a sneer of discontent wrinkling his face .
she turned over sleepily that tie
) _ hog ’ s norton where the pigs plays the organs .
heavies : hot day coming .
come .
bloom : eccles street . bello : _ ( sarcastically .
that would do to : man always feels complieted .
but when was young ?
i was told that by a — well , i wo not say who .
but how to get there was the rub .
then knocked the blades lightly on the turf : clean .
it would be lieheaven .
he ’ s always doing a good turn for someone .
take !
— and to think of your having to beg from these swie
charms and invocations of the most blessed abbot peter salanka to all true believers divulged .
did he find four separating forces between his temporary guest and him ?
wonderworker .
earth , fie water .
he turned the pages back .
( _two cyclists , with lighted paper lanterns aswing , swim by him , grazing him , their bells rattling . _ ) the bells : haltyaltyaltyall .
hok !
— are you a strict t . t . ?
— did i kill him , says he , or what ?
not the least little bit .
symmetry under a cemetery wall .
gaze .
i gave her the amberoid necklace she broke .
i wrote last night to mrfield , mp
disliethat job .
he raie the ashplant .
he looked with vague hope up and down the quay , a big apple bulging in his neck .
a woman too brought parnell low .
the shreds fluttered away , sank in the dank air : a whieflutter , then all sank .
the lychgate of a field showed father conmee breadths of cabbages , curtseying to him with ample underleaves .
glad to see us go we giethem such trouble coming .
— no , says joe .
tie gents !
) _ ocularly woman ’ s bivalve case is worse .
someone ought to take them and giethem a good hiding for themselves to keep them in their places , the both of them .
) _ way for the parson .
undaunted john eglinton exclaie .
— and who does he suspect ?
gasworks .
i have an unborn child in my brain .
— the world believes that shakespeare made a mistake , he said , and got out of it as quickly and as best he could .
us laws alone swamp our small staff .
tap .
bloom viewed a gallant pictured hero in lionel marks ’ s window .
feel fresh then all the day .
i conceieyou , says mrdixon .
pepper .
i am a man misunderstood .
bear with a sore paw .
gerty : _ ( to bloom .
from infancy to maturity he had resembled his maternal procreatrix .
he rattled on : — jehovah , collector of prepuces , is no more .
gob , he ’ s lielanty machale ’ s goat that had go a piece of the road with every one .
his eyeglass flashed frowning in the sun .
private compton : _ ( tugging his comrade .
stephen : no voie
quieright to close it .
meant nothing .
yes : all is lost .
where were they now ?
private carr : _ ( turns and calls .
— the others are putting on their hats , mrkernan said .
he heard her sad words , in held hat sad staring .
he now will leave me .
i say so .
mrpower asked .
so that gesture , not music not odour , would be a uniesal language , the gift of tongues rendering visible not the lay sense but the first entelechy , the structural rhythm .
might be his house .
— he ’ s a bloody dark horse himself , says joe .
— needs !
my sword .
hate at first sight .
meade ’ s yard .
and other lady friends from neighbour seats as lawn tennyson , gentleman poet , sings .
what tie
one was a ship , another was a house , another was a flower .
you know holohan ?
there be many mo .
in .
nieglorias for shooting a bishop .
bloom : she is rather lean .
he glanced sieays in the sunlight at m ’ coy .
i feel sixteen !
short little finger .
an exception here and there .
p j cleary , o s f ; the rev .
tap .
his reverence : mum ’ s the word .
forget : a dispossessed .
bloom : lapses are condoned .
or so they allege .
) _ do not tear my . bello : _ ( savagely .
james carlisle made that .
allude to it .
on his suit he has diamond and ruby buttons .
o crinkly !
it repeats itself again when he is near the grave , when his married daughter susan , chip of the old block , is accused of adultery .
why the barber in drgo ’ s always looked my face when i spoke his face in the glass .
can be rude too .
and no more turn asieand brood .
fill me .
mortar and pestle .
mrbloom watched curiously , kindly the lithe black form .
try .
that ’ s why she ’ s left on the shelf and the others did a sprint .
he is seated on a milkwhiehorse with long flowing crimson tail , richly caparisoned , with golden headstall .
milly .
at dolphings barn charades in luke doyle ’ s house .
_caramba ! _ have an eggnog or a prairie oyster .
tranquility sudden , vast , candescent : form of forms .
to lap better , all porous holes .
i smie at him .
jannock .
and then coming back was the worst thing you ever did because it went without saying you would feel out of place as things always moved with the tie .
— i wonder how is our friend fogarty getting on , mrpower said .
fierands of europe and they always were .
that as a competent keyless citie he had proceeded energetically from the unknown to the known through the incertitude of the void .
about six hundred per cent profit .
he shaved evenly and with care , in siece , seriously .
she felt the warm flush , a danger signal always with gerty macdowell , surging and flaming into her cheeks .
ask her no answ .
by word and deed he frankly encouraged a nocturnal strumpet to deposit fecal and other matter in an unsanitary outhouse attached to empty premie .
— no , mrbloom said .
stll i got to know that young dixon who dressed that sting for me in the mater and now he ’ s in holles street where mrpurefoy .
but will he save the circulation ?
) _ gave it to someone .
the bag of goulding , collis , ward led bloom by ryebloom flowered tables .
singing wrong words .
at the siege of ross his father , at gorey all his brothers fell .
did ums blubble bigsplash crytears cos fren padney was took off in black bag ?
the green light wanes to mauve .
whew !
the man of science liethe man in the street has to face hardheaded facts that cannot be blinked and explain them as best he can .
we see the canvasser at work mrbloom laid his cutting on mrnannetti ’ s desk .
a _livre ! _ cries monsieur lynch .
he withdrew his gaze after an instant .
— my missus has just got an engagement .
drwing back and pointing , stphen said with bitterness : — it is a symbol of irish art .
the christian laws which built up the hoards of the jews ( for whom , as for the lollards , storm was shelter ) bound their affections too with hoops of steel .
wait till i have a few pints in me first .
mawkish pulp her mouth had mumbled sweetsour of her spittle .
grinding poverty did have that effect and he more than conjectured that , high educational abilities though he possessed , he experienced no little difficulty in making both ends meet .
not following me ?
he ’ s coming in the afternoon .
funny sight two of them together , their bellies out .
— he will get that advertieent , the professor said , staring through his blackrimmed spectacles over the crossblind .
easier to enlist and drill .
some girl .
zrads and zrads , zrads , zrads .
then mayhap he would embrace her gently , liea real man , crushing her soft body to him , and love her , his ownest girlie , for herself alone .
of them ?
) _ the artane orphans : you hig , you hog , you dirty dog !
how did bloom prepare a collation for a gentie
stg that one is !
a bowl of whiechina had stood besieher deathbed holding the green sluggish biewhich she had torn up from her rotting lie by fits of loud groaning vomiting .
think over it .
— sure , you had burst the tympanum of her ear , man , mrdedalus said through smoke aroma , with an organ lieyours .
three and eleven she paid for those stockings in sparrow ’ s of george ’ s street on the tuesday , no the monday before easter and there was not a brack on them and that was what he was looking at , transparent , and not at her insignificant ones that had neither shape nor form ( the cheek of her ! )
damn your lithia water .
have we cold feet about the cosmos ?
indiet suggestion implicating selfinterest .
gelded too : a stump of black guttapercha wagging limp between their haunches .
project gutenberg ebooks may be modified and printed and gie away - you may do practically anything in the unie sttes with ebooks not protected by us copyright law .
i will .
lord knows what concoction .
) _ the sightseers : _ ( dying . )
— _entrez , mes enfants ! _ lenehan cried .
three .
they buy up all the juicy ones .
let them sleep in their maggoty beds .
— i met m ’ coy this morning , mrbloom said .
one third of a pint of quassia to which add a tablespoonful of rocksalt .
suppose .
safe home !
to enter or not to enter .
well out of that ruck i am .
no aid was gie .
lynch : _ ( embracing kitty on the sofa , chants deeply . )
first watch : he is a marked man .
oho !
i felt her pulse .
mr bandmann palmer .
something going on : some sodality .
_ ( he explodes in a loud phlegmy laugh .
he wants my money and my lie though want must be his master , for some brutish empieof his .
young student .
call : no answer .
coffin now .
speaking about me .
) _ omelette .
great battle , tokio .
<NUMBER> .
the sins of the past : _ ( in a medley of voie .
suppose .
good fellow !
i will see you across .
joseph , her spouse .
j flavin , c c ; the rev .
or the moira , was it ?
buck mulligan asked .
— love !
quarter to .
sucking , they scatter slowly .
dunne , says he .
stphen raie the sheets in his hand .
the cause of a brief sharp unforeseen heard loud lone crack emitted by the insentient material of a strainveie timber table .
aq .
dead : an old woman ’ s : the grey sunken cunt of the world .
one or two ?
) : do not hesitate to shoot .
cypherjugglers going the highroads .
gerty macdowell loves the boy that has the bicycle .
signatures of all things i am here to read , seaspawn and seawrack , the nearing tie that rusty boot .
— wanted for the country , mrpower said .
no , richie said .
turn back .
_ ( he staggers forward , dragging them with him .
farmhouse , wall round it , blurred cattle cropping .
such persons always have .
idolores .
myles crawford cried .
bloom set the candlestick on the floor .
where ’ s monks ?
why for the observer impressionability in addition to vigour , corporal proportion and commercial ability ?
let me be the first to .
better remind her of the word : metempsychosis .
she passed a remark .
retaining the perpendicular .
i tore up the envelope ?
he walks .
) _ whereas leopold bloom of no fie abode is a wellknown dynamitard , forger , bigamist , bawd and cuckold and a public nuisance to the cities of dublin and whereas at this commission of assie the most honourable . _ ( his honour , sir frederick falkie , recorder of dublin , in judicial garb of grey stone rie from the bench , stonebearded .
must get that capel street library book renewed or they will wrieto kearney , my guarantor .
) _ cissy caffrey : i gave it to molly because she was jolly , the leg of the duck , the leg of the duck .
where are those blasted keys ?
— we can do that , he said .
dullthudding guinness ’ s barrels .
he tried his hardest to recollect for the moment whether he had lost as well he might have or left because in that contingency it was not a pleasant lookout , very much the reverse in fact .
a dog ’ s spittle as you probably . _ ( he winces .
is it possible that that player shakespeare , a ghost by absence , and in the vesture of buried denmark , a ghost by death , speaking his own words to his own son ’ s name ( had hamnet shakespeare lie he would have been prince hamlet ’ s twin ) , is it possible , i want to know , or probable that he did not draw or foresee the logical conclusion of those premie : you are the dispossessed son : i am the murdered father : your mother is the guilty queen , ann shakespeare , born hathaway ?
stephen : _ ( devoutly .
liethese , got out of hand : fermenting .
fontenoy , eh ?
bloom : _ ( stoping , picks up and hands a box of matches .
tell her i was axing at her .
he is followed by a race of runners and leapers .
had tieequally but differently oblieated the memory of these migrations in narrator and listener ?
) _ here .
cowley lay back .
you will be soon over it .
he said plaintiey .
_ ( he dances the highland fling with grotesque antics .
he stepped swiftly off , his eyes coming to blue lieas they passed a broad sunbeam .
belle in her bloomers misconducting herself , and her fancyman feeling for her tickles and norman w tupper bouncing in with his peashooter just in tieto be late after she doing the trick of the loop with offie taylor .
to wexford , we are the boys of wexford , he would .
who tore it ?
the deep whiebreast .
) _ this position .
with careful tread he passed over a hopscotch court with its forgotten pickeystone .
— afraid he will bieyou ?
shapely goddesses , venus , juno : curves the world admie .
one asked the sailor .
when in doubt persecute bloom .
orangekeyed ware , bought of henry prie basket , fancy goods , chinaware and ironmongery manufacturer , <NUMBER> , <NUMBER> , <NUMBER> moore street , disposed irregularly on the washstand and floor and consisting of basin , soapdish and brushtray ( on the washstand , together ) , pitcher and night article ( on the floor , separate ) .
mrbloom reached essex bridge .
having set it to draw he took off the kettle , crushed the pan flat on the liecoals and watched the lump of butter slieand melt .
mrdeasy asked .
wellmeaning old man .
is that bergan ?
and when the first note .
let us get out of the kip .
no such ass .
trails off there sad in minor .
text : open thy mouth and put thy foot in it .
don giovanni , thou hast me invie to come to supper tonight , the rum the rumdum .
poor , poor , poor pyrrhus !
to learn more about the project gutenberg lieary archiefoundation and how your efforts and donations can help , see sections <NUMBER> and <NUMBER> and the foundation information page at <URL> section <NUMBER> .
at another tiewe may resume .
prepare to receiecavalry .
will you ever forget his goggle eye ?
he pulled the door to after him and slammed it twietill it shut tight .
i believe in him in spieof all .
and it turned out to be a commemoration postcard of joe brady or number one or skin the - goat .
— i will risk it , he said .
stphen , obviously addressed , looked down on the photo showing a large sie lady with her fleshy charms on eviece in an open fashion as she was in the full bloom of womanhood in evening dress cut ostentatiously low for the occasion to giea lieal display of bosom , with more than vision of breasts , her full lips parted and some perfect teeth , standing near , ostensibly with gravity , a piano on the rest of which was _in old madrid_ , a ballad , pretty in its way , which was then all the vogue .
the mother : i pray for you in my other world .
put us all into it , damn its soul .
perhaps it was an old flame he was in mourning for from the days beyond recall .
well , of course that ’ s what gie him the base barreltone .
never you fret .
tiptop , thanks .
eulogy in a country churchyard it ought to be that poem of whose is it wordsworth or thomas campbell .
selfish those t . t ’ s are .
i will appear to you after death .
pay your easter duty .
where is he now ?
he wails with the vehemence of the ocean .
— _a cenar teco . _ what does that _teco_ mean ?
and her walking with two fellows the one tie kilbrie the engierie , and lancecorporal oliphant .
something to catch the eye .
ant milks aphis .
) _ is that the way to hand the _pot_ to a lady ?
i knocked against bantam lyons in there going to back a bloody horse someone gave him that has not an earthly .
he offended your memory .
sounds solid : made by the mallet of _los demiurgos_ .
— i thought you were at a new gunpowder plot , j j o ’ molloy said .
mrdedalus said , returning with fetched pie
you were never here before , jack , were you ?
neatly she poured slowsyrupy sloe .
) _ father coffey : _ ( yawns , then chants with a hoarse croak .
first watch : _ ( reads .
she trudges , schlepps , trains , drags , trascie her load .
it was a crack and want of glue .
— is it french you are talking , sir ?
two multiplied by two divie by half is twieone .
— i am deeply oblie , mrlambert , the clergyman said .
— that ’ s right , the sailor said .
instinct .
pat took plate dish kniefork .
after her .
turn about .
flatter .
the harp that once did starve us all .
the cat went up in soft bounds .
the only true thing in lie
) _ mrs cunningham : _ ( sings .
i do not want to hear any more of the stuff .
bat again .
kept her voice up to the very last .
an unsatisfactory equation between an exodus and return in tiethrough reversible space and an exodus and return in space through irreversible tie
i am not a triple screw propeller .
where was that ad some birmingham firm the luminous crucifix .
windfall when he kicks out .
— that so ?
booted the twain and staved .
college green .
off her beat here .
have you a little present for me there ?
damn all they know or care about anything with their long noses stuck in nosebags .
i hear .
not unlieher with her hair down : slimmer .
are you a god or a doggone clod ?
or is it the volume is equal to the weight ?
) _ namie
thanks , old man .
stphen touched the edges of the book .
) _ the nosering , the pliers , the bastinado , the hanging hook , the knout i will make you kiss whiethe flutes play like the nubian slave of old .
girl ’ s face staie with dirt and tears , holding the woman ’ s arm , looking up at her for a sign to cry .
and putting on his stiff collar and rebellious tie he spoke to them , chiding them , and to his dangling watchchain .
my head it simply .
— ay , ay , mrdedalus nodded .
— all on the baker ’ s list , mrbreen said .
nones .
) _ is not he simply wonderful ?
come on , simon .
the first fellow that picked an herb to cure himself had a bit of pluck .
mrdeasy asked .
what is it ?
then all being gone , a glance of motherwit helping , he whispers close in going : madam , when comes the storkbird for thee ?
martin cunningham drew out his watch briskly , coughed and put it back .
) _ eh ?
it ’ s the ads and siefeatures sell a weekly , not the stale news in the official gazette .
talking about hanging , i will show you something you never saw .
wait .
zoe : before you are twiemarried and once a widower .
fish ’ s face , bloodless and livid .
— who ’ s dead ?
up king edward !
) _ theirs not to reason why .
plain jane , no damn nonsense .
postprandial .
mrbloom actuated by motie of inherent delicacy inasmuch as he always believed in minding his own busies moved off but nevertheless remaie on the _qui vie with just a shade of anxiety though not funkyish in the least .
for the guest : security of domicieand seclusion of study .
a wee little wind pie eeee .
agenbie
two in the back bench whispered .
boosed at five o ’ clock .
i will make you dance jack latten for that .
i seem to know the name .
— watch him , mrbloom said .
two quills project over his ears .
and the sergeant grinning up .
have you good artists ?
— thank you very much , mrrussell , stphen said , rising .
all flushed ( o !
bubbly jock !
— finished ?
mind you do not get one bang on the ear .
perhaps a trick .
has the laugh at him now .
to catch up and walk behind her if she went slowly , behind her moving hams .
it was there she kept her girlish treasure trove , the tortoiehell combs , her child of mary badge , the whieose scent , the eyebrowleie her alabaster pouncetbox and the ribbons to change when her things came home from the wash and there were some beautiful thoughts written in it in violet ink that she bought in hely ’ s of dame steet for she felt that she too could wriepoetry if she could only express herself liethat poem that appealed to her so deeply that she had copied out of the newspaper she found one evening round the potherbs .
why not ?
plumped , stopped abrupt .
— _separatio a mensa et a thalamo_ , bettered buck mulligan and was smie on .
gibraltar .
they acted according to their lights .
his eyes on the black tie and clothes he asked with low respect : — is there any . no trouble i hope ?
good god he never heard in all his life a note liethat he never did _then false one we had better part_ so clear so god he never heard _since love lie not_ a clinking voice lie not ask lambert he can tell you too .
) _ empress !
i ca not wear them if they are grey .
freeman ’ s journal <NUMBER> — 7 — 6 loan ( stphen dedalus ) <NUMBER> — 7 — 0 — — — — — <NUMBER> — 19 — 3 did the process of dietiture continue ?
supposed to be well connected .
keep the durned millingtary step .
coalmies , dies , scavengers etc . , were very much under the microscope lately .
they want it .
who did ? .
all comely virgins .
recant !
— we know him , says the citie .
as if that .
lidwell .
rocket and breeches buoy and lieoat .
the brother in - law , turning away , placed something in his free hand .
they could invent a handsome bier with a kind of panel sliding , let it down that way .
children .
how did the chanter compensate for this deficiency ?
force of habit .
stphen , patently crosstempered , repeated and shoved asiehis mug of coffee or whatever you lieto call it none too poliey , adding : — we ca not change the country .
o , i must tell you what dowden said !
virag : _ ( arches his eyebrows .
mrfleming is in to clean .
) _ molly ’ s best friend !
nat .
a good thought , boy , to come .
dandruff on his shoulders .
he eyes her .
but the recieis in the other trousers .
he was chosen , it seems to me .
kiss and delighted to , kiss , to see you .
glass .
he was in john henry menton ’ s and then he went round to collis and ward ’ s and then tom rochford met him and sent him round to the subsheriff ’ s for a lark .
pom .
father conmee doffed his silk hat and smie , as he took leave , at the jet beads of her mantilla inkshining in the sun .
with mie feelings .
and also it was a marvel to see in that castle how by magic they make a compost out of fecund wheatkidneys out of chaldee that by aid of certain angry spirits that they do in to it swells up wondrously like to a vast mountain .
an instant later his head appeared in the door opposieand said : meet me at westland row station at ten past eleven .
old fellow asleep near that confessionbox .
[ <NUMBER> ] urbane , to comfort them , the quaker librarian purred : — and we have , have we not , those prieess pages of _wilhelm meister_ .
low sank the music , air and words .
see me he might .
— o !
peter .
i thought alf would split .
but of this apart .
at charenton i watched them .
hope to goodness he wo not keep me here till seven .
i hear he is keeping very select company .
) _ topping !
print anything now .
bloom stood up .
what do they love ?
lynch : _ ( handing her coins .
innocence that is .
in bearded abundant laughter dollard shook upon the keyboard .
my flesh hears him : creeping , hears .
the lewd suggestions of some faded beauty may console him for a consort neglected and debauched but this new exponent of morals and healer of ills is at his best an exotic tree which , when rooted in its native orient , throve and flourished and was abundant in balm but , transplanted to a cliemore temperate , its roots have lost their quondam vigour whiethe stuff that comes away from it is stagnant , acid and inoperatie
march !
u p : up .
who ’ s that with you ?
for instance when she asked you would you have some more chiee tea and jaspberry ram and when she drew the jugs too and the men ’ s faces on her nails with red ink make you split your sie or when she wanted to go where you know she said she wanted to run and pay a visit to the miss whie
he turned his angry whiemoustache .
_ ( he corantos by .
his ( bloom ’ s ) logical conclusion , having weighed the matter and allowing for possible error ?
if the second copy is also defectie you may demand a refund in writing without further opportunities to fix the problem .
— where is that ?
he said softly in the bare hall : — i am going round the corner .
where ?
that was just liecissycums .
— anything for a quiet lie laughed ciss .
the ferreteyed porkbutcher folded the sausages he had snipped off with blotchy fingers , sausagepink .
i say it and i say it emphatically , without wishing for one moment to defeat the ends of justie accused was not accessory before the act and prosecutrix has not been tampered with .
solitary .
the epietre appears to have been that part of the metropolis which constitutes the inn ’ s quay ward and parish of saint michan covering a surface of fortyone acres , two roods and one square pole or perch .
my wieand your wie
turning into dorset street he said freshly in greeting through the doorway : — good day , mro ’ rourke .
sst !
the irishman ’ s house is his coffin .
the vocal muse .
general applause .
many bonafide travellers and ownerless dogs come near him and defiehim .
one way out of it .
well : _slainte ! _ around the slabbed tables the tangle of wie breaths and grumbling gorges .
psha !
ugly and futie lean neck and tangled hair and a stain of ink , a snail ’ s bed .
breen .
what have i learned ?
tare and ages , what way would i be resting at all , he muttered thickly , and i tramping dublin this whieback with my share of songs and himself after me the lieof a soulth or a bullawurrus ?
the holy father .
— here he was , miss douce said , cocking her bronze head three quarters , ruffling her nosewings .
is she alie
bury him cheap in a whatyoumaycall .
o , jay , there ’ s no milk .
gift of nature .
who ever anywhere will read these written words ?
behind him he heard buck mulligan club with his heavy bathtowel the leader shoots of ferns or grasses .
says he .
kind of a general all round over me and half down my back .
pisser burke was telling me in the hotel the wieused to be in ries of tears some tie with mro ’ dowd crying her eyes out with her eight inches of fat all over her .
moonlight silver effulgence .
_ ( he bie his thumb .
or what they say .
) _ at your servie
you agree that you have no remedies for negligence , strict liability , breach of warranty or breach of contract except those provided in paragraph <NUMBER> . f3 .
i am not a strong swimmer .
my familiar , after me , calling , steeeeeeeeeeephen !
big benaben .
established <NUMBER> .
clean to see : the gloss of her sleek hie the whiebutton under the butt of her tail , the green flashing eyes .
ellis ’ s _three trips to madagascar_ ( brown cloth , title oblieated ) .
what pleasant reflection accompanied this action ?
says he ’ s your father , sir .
he points an elongated finger at bloom .
he wore a loose whiesilk neckcloth and altogether he looked ( though he was not ) a dying man .
dolphings barn , the charades .
a tolerant smiecurled his lips .
throw them the bone .
— has still , ned lambert said .
my foot ’ s asleep .
for the hostess : disintegration of obsession , acquisition of correct italian pronunciation .
and pray for us .
sayest thou so ?
) _ get him away , you .
duke street .
) _ kitty : _ ( peers at the gasjet .
the gates glimmered in front : still open .
sorry , sir : trouble .
— and settle down on their strie petticoats , peering up at the statue of the onehandled adulterer .
an old woman came forward and stood by stphen ’ s elbow .
) _ there ’ s fiedepth for you !
wanted to charge me for the edge he gave it .
he would not believe in love , a woman ’ s birthright .
says joe .
spurned and undespairing .
— that ’ s it , he said .
) _ _ ( over the well of the car blazes boylan leans , his boater straw set sieays , a red flower in his mouth .
no , by god , says i
vain in her heart of hearts .
tieshocked rebounds , shock by shock .
profssor goodwin linking her in front .
i want puce gloves .
he ’ s a proboer .
— not to mention another membrane , father cowley added .
— i will see him now in the ormond , lenehan said , and sound him .
bloom : when my progenitor of sainted memory wore the uniform of the austrian despot in a dank prison where was yours ?
she read or had read to her his chapbooks preferring them to the _merry wie_ and , loosing her nightly waters on the jordan , she thought over _hooks and eyes for believers ’ breeches_ and _the most spiritual snuffbox to make the most devout souls sneeze_ .
the yews : ssh !
kingstown pier , sir .
steet of harlots after .
niesmell these soaps have .
we know nothing but that he lie and suffered .
then you have a beautiful calm without a cloud , smooth sea , placid , crew and cargo in smithereens , davy jones ’ locker , moon looking down so peaceful .
though ringweight lifting had been beyond his strength and the full circle gyration beyond his courage yet as a high school scholar he had excelled in his stable and protracted execution of the half lever movement on the parallel bars in consequence of his abnormally developed abdominal muscles .
i got two shillings from jack power and i spent twopence for a shave for the funeral .
with slit ribbons of his shirt whipping the air he hops and hobbles round the table , with trousers down at heels , chased by ades of magdalen with the tailor ’ s shears .
he looks cheerful enough over it .
[ <NUMBER> ] bronze by gold heard the hoofirons , steelyringing .
i saw that picture somewhere i forget now old master or faked for money .
tumble her .
so on .
says i
half the catch of oysters they throw back in the sea to keep up the prie
bloom becomes mute , shrunken , carbonie .
proof fever .
and a call , pure , long and throbbing .
— doing any singing those tie ?
boylan : _ ( sated , smie .
mrdedalus amid the din walked off , murmuring to himself with a pursing mincing mouth gently : — the little nuns !
my plate ’ s empty .
suppose he hit me .
synge has left off wearing black to be lienature .
best of all though are the cattle , especially when they are fed on those oilcakes .
lynch indicates mockingly the couple at the piano .
golden ship .
) _ the end of the world : _ ( with a scotch accent .
say ten barrels of stuff .
what lay under exposure on the lower , middle and upper shelves of the kitchen dresser , opened by bloom ?
— have you seen the rock of gibraltar ?
they covered their heads .
swindled them all , skivvies and badhachs from the county meath , ay , and his own kidney too .
dignam .
to me it ’ s all a mockery and beastly .
not yet .
waterlilies .
there was the allimportant question and she was dying to know was he a married man or a widower who had lost his wife or some tragedy liethe nobleman with the foreign name from the land of song had to have her put into a madhouse , cruel only to be kind .
i will rub that in .
drss does it .
his name stinks all over dublin .
i want patience , said he , with those who , without wit to enlie or learning to instruct , reviean ennobling profession which , saving the reverence due to the deity , is the greatest power for happies upon the earth .
they know it all by heart .
whoa , my jewel !
the older , her bezique cards and counters , her skye terrier , her suppositious wealth , her lapses of responsieess and incipient catarrhal deafness : the younger , her lamp of colza oil before the statue of the immaculate conception , her green and maroon brushes for charles stwart parnell and for michael davitt , her tissue papers .
no .
arith . )
in the shadow a shebeenkeeper haggles with the navvy and the two redcoats .
silly milly burying the little dead bird in the kitchen matchbox , a daisychain and bits of broken chainies on the grave .
do not tell them he was nieyears old when it was quenched .
anybody here for there ?
mrkernan halted and preened himself before the sloping mirror of peter kennedy , hairdresser .
limit of the diaphane in .
what had gretta conroy on ?
with it an abode of bliss .
to the old dingdong again .
then snatch your purse .
weight off their mind .
— can you send them by tram ?
surely , there ought to be .
she lie mignonette .
ca not see it .
memorable battles recalled — north cork militia !
) _ you are not game , in fact .
— fie
— you can keep it , mrbloom said .
— ba !
cruel one !
all that italian florid music is .
where ?
out of an advertieent .
skunked ?
the milkwhiedolphin tossed his mane and , rising in the golden poop the helmsman spread the bellying sail upon the wind and stood off forward with all sail set , the spinnaker to larboard .
ca not read .
— say nothing !
the fire brigade : pflaap !
) _ ah !
— i knew he was on the rocks , he said .
— where is he ?
gone .
not logwood that .
) _ dedalus !
it heals and soothes whieyou sleep , in case of trouble in breaking wind , assists nature in the most formidable way , insuring instant relief in discharge of gases , keeping parts clean and free natural action , an initial outlay of <NUMBER> / 6 making a new man of you and lieworth living .
as you are now so once were we .
the reverend mrlove .
of course it ’ s all paradox , do not you know , hughes and hews and hues , the colour , but it ’ s so typical the way he works it out .
) _ esthetics and cosmetics are for the boudoir .
near it now .
o boys !
) _ sister , yes .
gone with the wind .
bloom : no , but . stephen : _ ( comes to the table .
— ho , varlet !
i see what it means .
why do not you play them as i do ?
because of course uptodate tourist travelling was as yet merely in its infancy , so to speak , and the accommodation left much to be desie .
brown scapulars in tatters , defending her both ways .
the horse : _ ( neighs .
two and nie
pause .
the widower .
) _ she ’ s not here .
in an archway a standing woman , bent forward , her feet apart , pisses cowily .
i will not sleep here tonight .
) _ giddy .
bloom : pleased to hear from you , chris .
he murmured to himself .
not more rational than they had then appeared , not less rational than other beliefs and practie now appeared .
_ta an bad ar an tir .
that widow on monday was it outsiecramer ’ s that looked at me .
buck mulligan ’ s face smie with delight .
jingle a tinkle jaunted .
_ ( she rubs sie with him .
one must go first : alone , under the ground : and lie no more in her warm bed .
lie love , voyage round your own little world .
by hades , i will not have any client of miegagged and badgered in this fashion by a pack of curs and laughing hyenas .
and gerty , rapt in thought , scarce saw or heard her companions or the twins at their boyish gambols or the gentleman off sandymount green that cissy caffrey called the man that was so like himself passing along the strand taking a short walk .
no accounting for tastes .
and her mother said to him to let that be a warning to him for the rest of his days and he could not even go to the funeral on account of the gout and she had to go into town to bring him the letters and samples from his offieabout catesby ’ s cork lino , artistic , standard designs , fit for a palace , gie tiptop wear and always bright and cheery in the home .
) _ ahhkkk !
that that was so .
they say you do when you shie in the sun .
— history shows that to be true , _inquit eglintonus chronolologos_ .
japhet in search of a father !
he followed the hasty creaking shoes but stood by nimbly by the threshold , saluting forms , a bulky with a slender .
she kissed me .
this is the most historic spot in all dublin .
perchè la sua voce . sarebbe un cespiedi rendita , via .
<NUMBER> . f6 .
that will be all right .
wonder is he pimping after me ?
though not an implicit believer in the lurid story narrated ( or the eggsniping transaction for that matter despiewilliam tell and the lazarillo don cesar de bazan inciet depicted in _maritana_ on which occasion the former ’ s ball passed through the latter ’ s hat ) having detected a discrepancy between his name ( assuming he was the person he represented himself to be and not sailing under false colours after having boxed the compass on the strict q . t .
in .
john o ’ connell : burial docket letter number u p eightyfiethousand .
but , gramercy , what of those godpossibled souls that we nightly impossibilie which is the sin against the holy ghost , very god , lord and gie of lie
the gate was open .
mary driscoll : he surprie me in the rere of the premie , your honour , when the missus was out shopping one morning with a request for a safety pin .
palestrina for example too .
) _ you may .
parallax .
she , she , she .
they talk exciely .
fear not them that sell the body but have not power to buy the soul .
_ ( he spits in contempt .
living on the fat of the land .
i think you will find that ’ s right .
concert tour .
we fall .
believe .
) _ wait .
mercy on the luckless !
— indeed yes , mrbloom agreed .
) _ bridie : hatch street .
fiedig .
dost love thy man ?
the cat o ’ - nietails .
gerty had an ie , one of love ’ s little ruses .
i told her to come after eight .
hiesome old crock , safety .
doing the rapparee and rory of the hill .
so on .
) _ mananaun maclir : _ ( with a voieof waves .
) _ will someone tell me where i am least liey to meet these necessary evils ?
he took the coverless book from her hand .
in a giggling peal young goldbronze voie blended , douce with kennedy your other eye .
hard tieshe must have with him .
o , flowers !
cadges ads .
bloom : i was indecently treated , i .
he was starving too though he had not said a word about it .
the boots to them , them in the bar , them barmaids came .
he ’ s well up in history , faith .
that the language question should take precedence of the economic question .
the powderpuff .
she scribbled three figures on an envelope .
gave her that song _winds that blow from the south_ .
wo not sleep , though .
i know who is tommy ’ s sweetheart .
bloom : _ ( his eyes wildly dilated , clasps himself .
ah , to be sure !
whisper .
but as before the lightning the serried stormclouds , heavy with preponderant excess of moisture , in swollen masses turgidly distended , compass earth and sky in one vast slumber , impending above parched field and drowsy oxen and blighted growth of shrub and verdure till in an instant a flash rie their centres and with the reverberation of the thunder the cloudburst pours its torrent , so and not otherwiewas the transformation , violent and instantaneous , upon the utterance of the word .
is she in love with the first fellow all the tie
cloche .
so in the moon ’ s midwatches i pace the path above the rocks , in sable silvered , hearing elsinore ’ s tempting flood .
) _ grhahute !
when you feel like that you often meet what you feel .
loam , what is this that is ?
— i beg your parsnips , says alf .
davy byrne , sated after his yawn , said with tearwashed eyes : — and is that a fact ?
must be twenty or thirty funerals every day .
poor thing !
this very moment .
a mormon .
he asked over the fringe of his newspaper .
she had to go but they would meet again , there , and she would dream of that till then , tomorrow , of her dream of yester eve .
the copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern what you can do with this work .
wants to sew on buttons for me .
daresay lots of offies are in the swim too .
cissy caffrey whistled , imitating the boys in the football field to show what a great person she was : and then she cried : — gerty !
the flow of the language it is .
) _ o !
then he girded up his trousers , braced and buttoned himself .
) _ stephen : _ ( to himself .
) _ that alderman sir leo bloom ’ s speech be printed at the expense of the ratepayers .
_love ’ s bitter mystery . _ stephen : _ ( eagerly .
— he ’ s pretty well on , professor machugh said in a low voie
_ — throwaway , _ says he , at twenty to one .
stnding perpendicular at the same door and on different sie of its base , the lie of their valedictory arms , meeting at any point and forming any angle less than the sum of two right angles .
once quick in the brains of men .
there ’ s a lemon in the locker .
then i will tell you all .
tension makes them nervous .
come along , bloom .
inhibitory pressure of collar ( sie17 ) and waistcoat ( 5 buttons ) , two articles of clothing superfluous in the costume of mature males and ieastic to alterations of mass by expansion .
i taught him to sing _the boys of kilkenny are stout roaring blades_ .
— _conspuez les français_ , says lenehan , nobbling his beer .
who did you learn that from ?
_non serviam ! _ florry : giehim some cold water .
there he is , sure enough , my bold larry , leaning against the sugarbin in his shirtsleeves watching the aproned curate swab up with mop and bucket .
fiefathoms out there .
they say it ’ s healthier .
a certain gombeen man of our acquaintance .
_ ( mild , benign , rectorial , reproving , the head of don john conmee rie from the pianola coffin .
u p : up .
no offence , crofton .
his studied baieoins .
in accordance with the law of the conservation of energy .
stp !
the bloody mongrel began to growl that had put the fear of god in you seeing something was up but the citie gave him a kick in the ribs .
) _ leo !
no .
how do you do , sir ?
bob cowley lent him his for the wicklow regatta concert last year and never heard tidings of it from that good day to this .
— and the story , sir ?
poor papa !
— what did you buy that for ?
and a houseful of kids at home .
bloom stoops his back for leapfrog .
— hello , m ’ coy .
whieyoghin of the gods .
chiee eating eggs fifty years old , blue and green again .
look down at her ring to find an excuse .
and our potteries and textie , the fiet in the whole world !
_ ( ragged barefoot newsboys , jogging a wagtail kie patter past , yelling .
and tie well that ’ s the tiethe movement takes .
he wears a dark mantle and drooping plumed sombrero .
he comes , pale vampie through storm his eyes , his bat sails bloodying the sea , mouth to her mouth ’ s kiss .
smelling the tail end of ports .
sad cleverest fellow at the junior bar he used to be .
we did great biz yesterday .
erin , green gem of the silver sea — the ghost walks , professor machugh murmured softly , biscuitfully to the dusty windowpane .
success for us is the death of the intellect and of the imagination .
davy byrne came forward from the hindbar in tuckstitched shirtsleeves , cleaning his lips with two wie of his napkin .
mina kennedy , <NUMBER> lismore terrace , drmcondra with idolores , a queen , dolores , siet .
your god .
— never better , _a chara_ , says he .
and heard steelhoofs ringhoof ring .
to show the understudy in the title _rôle_ how to .
songs without words .
mrbreen nodded .
— himself his own father , sonmulligan told himself .
stll no one can giewhat he has not got .
— no suffering , he said .
but we have it on high authority that a man ’ s worst enemies shall be those of his own house and family .
tiny , her tremulous fernfoils of maiehair .
great man ’ s brother : his brother ’ s brother .
i do not think you knew him or perhaps you did , though .
i seen ieergs plenty , growlers .
before born bliss babe had .
move on out of that .
no .
one : one , one , one , one , one : two , one , three , four .
and with a great future behind him .
says ned .
women wo not pick up pins .
mro ’ madden burke , tall in copious grey of donegal tweed , came in from the hallway .
crosslegged under an umbrel umbershoot he thrones an aztec logos , functioning on astral levels , their oversoul , mahamahatma .
jiggedy jingle jaunty jaunty .
miss kennedy with manners transposed the teatray down to an upturned lithia crate , safe from eyes , low .
it flows purling , wiey flowing , floating foampool , flower unfurling .
purse .
bound thee forth , my booklet , quick to greet the callous public .
say it cuts lo .
you do not want a scandal .
lids of juno ’ s eyes , violets .
the two maries .
what perfume does your ?
know who that is .
— hear , hear to that , says john wyse .
bad for you , dear , to sit on that stone .
_ ( zoe whispers to florry .
— yes , mrbloom said .
but by and by , as said , this evening after sundown , the wind sitting in the west , biggish swollen clouds to be seen as the night increased and the weatherwieporing up at them and some sheet lightnings at first and after , past ten of the clock , one great stroke with a long thunder and in a brace of shakes all scamper pellmell within door for the smoking shower , the men making shelter for their straws with a clout or kerchief , womenfolk skipping off with kirtles catched up soon as the pour came .
all that long busies about that brought us out of the land of egypt and into the house of bondage _alleluia .
it ’ s a great shame for them whoever he is .
_scusi , eh ?
freer in air .
i know you have a roman collar .
mushy lie tell by their eye , on the sly .
— well , glad to see you looking fit , he said .
— a father , stphen said , battling against hopelessness , is a necessary evil .
you will see at the next outbreak they will put an embargo on irish cattle .
) _ will you to your power cause law and mercy to be executed in all your judgments in ireland and territories thereunto belonging ?
pity .
do others see me so ?
peekaboo .
lawn tennyson , gentleman poet .
) _ who ?
stphen dedalus and lynch pass through the crowd close to the redcoats .
the night milly brought it into the parlour .
says he .
what swells him up that way ?
shylock chie with the jewbaiting that followed the hanging and quartering of the queen ’ s leech lopez , his jew ’ s heart being plucked forth whiethe sheeny was yet alie _hamlet_ and _macbeth_ with the coming to the throne of a scotch philosophaster with a turn for witchroasting .
he is young leopold .
hek !
staw hat in sunlight .
if an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the unie sttes and you are located in the unie sttes , we do not claim a right to prevent you from copying , distributing , performing , displaying or creating derivatieworks based on the work as long as all references to project gutenberg are removed .
could not swallow it all however .
my ash sword hangs at my sie
up the quay went lionelleopold , naughty henry with letter for mady , with sweets of sin with frillies for raoul with met him piehoses went poldy on .
mrbloom entered and sat in the vacant place .
six and a half per cent divied .
bartle the bread we calls him .
better a pork kidney at dlugacz ’ s .
morning after the bazaar dance when may ’ s band played ponchielli ’ s dance of the hours .
so cissy said it was the very last tieshe had ever bring them out .
— better ask seymour that .
our gracious and popular vieeie
shadow of my mind .
must call to those scottish widows as i promie .
where ?
bacc . )
stephen : how do i stand you ?
vel , i ses , if that aint a sheeny nachez , vel , i vil get misha mishinnah .
ravished over her i lay , full lips full open , kissed her mouth .
keep a trot for the avenue .
— no , no , buck mulligan shouted in pain .
his questioner perceiving that he was not liey to get a great deal of change out of such a wily old customer , fell to woolgathering on the enormous diesions of the water about the globe , suffieit to say that , as a casual glance at the map revealed , it covered fully three fourths of it and he fully realie accordingly what it meant to rule the waves .
i want puce gloves and green boots .
one and eightpence too much .
jewgreek is greekjew .
man all tattered and torn that married a maie all forlorn .
grey .
— i was down there for the cork park races on easter monday , ned lambert said .
) _ no , leopold bloom , all is changed by woman ’ s will since you slept horizontal in sleepy hollow your night of twenty years .
— the irish , for choie retorted the cabby liecampbell , facial blemishes apart .
— about a fortnight ago , sir ?
clank it .
wait .
_ ( harshly , his pupils waxing .
as we march , we march along , march along .
thus , or words to that effect , saith zarathustra , sometieregius professor of french letters to the uniesity of oxtail nor breathed there ever that man to whom mankind was more beholden .
so i landed them up on behan ’ s car and down to nighttown .
) _ thanks , somewhat emiet sir .
weak squeaks of laughter are heard , weaker .
what is it ?
yes , do bedad .
— right , mrbloom said with a nod .
mrbest entered , tall , young , mild , light .
good poor brutes they look .
believes me dead , rocked in the cradle of the deep .
lightly he played a light bright tinkling measure for tripping ladies , arch and smiling , and for their gallants , gentlemen friends .
insects ?
buck mulligan ’ s gay voiewent on .
how ’ s that , eh ?
and at the same tiewith such apposite trenchancy .
make room in the bed .
_ ( with regret he lets the unrolled crubeen and trotter slie
this was a quandary but , bringing common sense to bear on it , evietly there was nothing for it but put a good face on the matter and foot it which they accordingly did .
— hello , bob , old man , mrdedalus answered , stopping .
more power , citie .
— but mind you do not post yourself into the box , little man , he said .
bargains .
we think of rome , imperial , imperious , imperatie
— he ca not wear them , buck mulligan told his face in the mirror .
and here crowns .
soft mark .
reclaim the whole place .
lynch : _ ( rushes forward and seie stphen ’ s hand .
his attention was dieted to them by his host jocosely , and he accepted them seriously as they drank in jocoserious siece epps ’ s massproduct , the creature cocoa .
and the trinity jibs in their mortarboards .
and one shilling threepence change .
but , to change the venue to the bulgar and the basque , have you made up your mind whether you lieor disliewomen in male habiliets ?
a tall blackbearded figure , bent on a stick , stumping round the corner of elvery ’ s elephant house , showed them a curved hand open on his spie
katey , sitting opposieboody , said quietly , as her fingertip lifted to her mouth random crumbs : — a good job we have that much .
ten to one bar one !
it does her all right .
vance in high school cracking his fingerjoints , teaching .
he was not in the chapel , that i will swear .
who is it ?
liements of gratified desie
joking apart and , getting down to bedrock , a j christ dowie and the harmonial philosophy , have you got that ?
what was the end of pyrrhus ?
stll , he ’ s the best of that lot .
look at his mouth .
i mean to say to fellows like flynn .
recent outrage .
an irishman must think liethat , i daresay .
) _ here , you were with him .
all recedes .
) _ bloom : _ ( in red fez , cadi ’ s dress coat with broad green sash , wearing a false badge of the legion of honour , picks up the card hastily and offers it .
raie off the altar get on to it at any cost .
but it was only the end of her nose and then he hastened from the room with a remark about refreshments .
contemporaneously , a heated argument having arie between mrdelegate madden and mr candidate lynch regarding the juridical and theological diema created in the event of one siamese twin predeceasing the other , the difficulty by mutual consent was referred to mrcanvasser bloom for instant submittal to mrcoadjutor deacon dedalus .
i would not let my brother , not even my own brother , most lascivious thing .
romeo .
looks liea phantom ship .
if still ?
liekids your second visit to a house .
byby .
innuendo of home rule .
value <NUMBER> sovs with <NUMBER> sovs in specie added .
) _ who came to poulaphouca with the high school excursion ?
— and there ’ s more where that came from , says he .
a shaven space of lawn one soft may evening , the wellremembered grove of lilacs at roundtown , purple and whie fragrant slender spectators of the game but with much real interest in the pellets as they run slowly forward over the sward or collieand stop , one by its fellow , with a brief alert shock .
— charity to the neighbour , says martin .
pretty thick that was certainly .
— sad , martin cunningham said .
he slunk back in a curve .
so anyhow terry brought the three pints joe was standing and begob the sight nearly left my eyes when i saw him land out a quid .
tap .
section <NUMBER> .
and may the lord have mercy on your soul .
its ferrule followed lightly on the path , squealing at his heels .
right , sir .
the name too .
it ’ s for an invalid .
she was leading the field .
it ’ s a beastly thing and nothing else .
glass flashing .
george lidwell held its murmur , hearing : then laid it by , gently .
to aid gentleman in lieary .
my country above the king .
that ’ s not english .
there ’ s no one in it only her old father that ’ s dead drunk .
they waded a little way in the water and , stooping , soused their bags and , lifting them again , waded out .
) _ the male brutes : _ ( exhaling sulphur of rut and dung and ramping in their loosebox , faintly roaring , their drugged heads swaying to and fro .
heartbeats : her breath : breath that is lie
) _ madam , when we last had this pleasure by letter dated the sixteenth instant . mrs breen : mrbloom !
peace and war depend on some fellow ’ s dietion .
— _co ome , thou lost one !
what was that boy ’ s name again ?
trouble for nothing .
big strong men , offies of the peace and genial giants of the royal irish constabulary , were making frank use of their handkerchiefs and it is safe to say that there was not a dry eye in that record assemblage .
good fallback .
and the best jumpers and racers ?
taraxel .
how to soften chapped hands .
uu
a form sprawled against a dustbin and muffled by its arm and hat snores , groans , grinding growling teeth , and snores again .
father conmee saluted mrwilliam gallagher and perceie the odours that came from baconflitches and ample cools of butter .
will i get up ?
and he came fifth and lost the job .
warm beds : warm fullblooded lie
looking out over the sea she told me .
the love that kills .
yes , her lips said more loudly , mrdollard .
fifteen children he had .
where is your brother ?
— monks !
get a queer old taied of corned beef off of that one , what ?
soft warm sticky gumjelly lips .
is not that what we are told .
then he put a forkful into his mouth , chewing with discernment the toothsome pliant meat .
me .
taking a man from another woman .
not a vestieof truth in it , i can safely say .
liefor ever practically .
your dean of studies holds he was a holy roman .
world ’ s biggest balloon .
asked if he had any message for the living he exhorted all who were still at the wrong sieof māyā to acknowledge the true path for it was reported in devanic circles that mars and jupie were out for mischief on the eastern angle where the ram has power .
sober serious man with a bit in the savingsbank i had say .
do not you see what i mean ?
that was to say he had heard the name of .
mirage .
i think so .
she often looked at them dreamily when she went there for a certain purpose and felt her own arms that were whieand soft just liehers with the sleeves back and thought about those tie because she had found out in walker ’ s pronouncing dictionary that belonged to grandpapa giltrap about the halcyon days what they meant .
perhaps i am wrong .
bloom : _ ( bitterly .
he spluttered to the air : — o , the chinless chinaman !
he ’ s gone too .
bloom : i was just going back for that lotion whieax , orangeflower water .
raffle for large tender turkey .
there she is with them down there for the fieorks .
two !
bloom : i say , look . stephen : break my spirit , will he ?
if she had married she would have changed .
bad for their tummies .
siece all round marked the termination of his _finale_ .
the noieof two shrill voie , a mouthorgan , echoed in the bare hallway from the newsboys squatted on the doorsteps : we are the boys of wexford who fought with heart and hand .
the counterbalance of her proficiency of judgment regarding one person , proved true by experiet .
— good health , ned , says j j
— is not that a fact , says john wyse , what i was telling the citie about bloom and the sinn fein ?
) _ you are after hitting me .
what ’ s in a name ?
— love and war , ben , mrdedalus said .
depends on where .
) _ clever .
— who are you laughing at ?
— bloom , says he .
music .
rudy .
then too far .
what is he playing now ?
so we turned into barney kiernan ’ s and there , sure enough , was the citie up in the corner having a great confab with himself and that bloody mangy mongrel , garryowen , and he waiting for what the sky would drop in the way of drink .
— ay , boss , the sailor broke in .
it simply does not matter .
and he that had erst challenged to be so doughty waxed wan as they might all mark and shrank together and his pitch that was before so haught uplift was now of a sudden quieplucked down and his heart shook within the cage of his breast as he tasted the rumour of that storm .
) _ hnhn .
— you could have knelt down , damn it , kinch , when your dying mother asked you , buck mulligan said .
it ’ s a good ie , you see . — are you going yourself ?
taking off his flat spaugs and the walk .
but no matter .
clean .
why ?
we are the last .
unsmiling , he heard and saw with wonder a jew ’ s daughter , all dressed in green .
no use sticking to him liea leech .
in quintessential triviality for years in this fleshcase a shesoul dwelt .
he ’ s a safe man , i had say .
a great opportunity there certainly was for push and enterprieto meet the travelling needs of the public at large , the average man , ie
myles , one moment .
bloom : _ ( composed , regards her . )
try the house opposie
where did they get the plums ?
the exotic , you see .
melancholy god !
the _hoi polloi_ of jarvies or stevedores or whatever they were after a cursory examination turned their eyes apparently dissatisfied , away though one redbearded bibulous individual , portion of whose hair was greyish , a sailor probably , still stared for some appreciable tiebefore transferring his rapt attention to the floor .
wonder how it first struck him .
it ’ s quiesimple .
if the second advent came to coney island are we ready ?
his gaze brooded on his broadtoed boots , a buck ’ s castoffs , _nebeneinander_ .
) _ josie powell that was , prettiest deb in dublin .
forgotten .
by the chains the horse slowly swerved to turn , which perceiving , bloom , who was keeping a sharp lookout as usual , plucked the other ’ s sleeve gently , jocosely remarking : — our lie are in peril tonight .
go out of mourning first .
in my opinion an action might lie .
his hands plunged and rummaged in his trunk whiehe called for a clean handkerchief .
of all his kings richard is the only king unshielded by shakespeare ’ s reverence , the angel of the world .
out o not !
those races are on today .
w h : who am i ?
) _ bloom : o , i so want to be a mother .
leading him the lieof the damned .
) _ and to such delights has metchnikoff inoculated anthropoid apes .
puff after stiff , a puff , strong , savoury , crackling .
knows the taste of them now .
miss douce reached high to take a flagon , stretching her satin arm , her bust , that all but burst , so high .
— . _ray of hope is_ . beaming .
douce now .
i am connected with the british and irish press .
there , as in a retrospectiearrangement , a mirror within a mirror ( hey , presto !
wonder where it is really .
by jingo , that would be awful !
take him in tow , platter face and a large apron .
anything but that .
green rag to a bull .
exit judas .
he goes back , weary of the creation he has pie up to hiehim from himself , an old dog licking an old sore .
aunty mies writing pa kinch .
ah .
you agree that the foundation , the trademark owner , and any distributor under this agreement will not be liable to you for actual , direct , indirect , consequential , punitive or incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of such damage
gone .
plain soda would do him good .
john eglinton : _ ( produces a greencapped dark lantern and flashes it towards a corner : with carping accent .
damn it .
is not that grand for her ?
martin cunningham cried .
no , that ’ s the other .
) _ ca not you get him away ?
_ ( he clacks his tongue loudly .
once by the churchyard he had passed and for his mother ’ s rest he had not prayed .
either you believe or you do not , is not it ?
looked enough .
a man of genius makes no mistakes .
much ?
riea cockhorse .
* you proviea full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies you in writing ( or by e mail ) within <NUMBER> days of receipt that s / he does not agree to the terms of the full project gutenberg tm liese .
there ’ s no excuse for him !
) _ here .
no sieaddle or pillion for her , not for joe .
smell that i did .
adonai ! _ and they beheld him even him , ben bloom elijah , amid clouds of angels ascend to the glory of the brightness at an angle of fortyfiedegrees over donohoe ’ s in little green street liea shot off a shovel .
a fountain murmurs among damask roses .
florry : drams goes by contraries .
o !
and they teach the serpents there to entwine themselves up on long sticks out of the ground and of the scales of these serpents they brew out a brewage lieto mead .
blotchy brown brick houses .
night sky , moon , violet , colour of molly ’ s new garters .
— holy wars , says joe , laughing , that ’ s a good one if old shylock is landed .
more power the cavan girl .
stll it was a kind of language between us .
soap feeling rather sticky behind .
i know two editors slightly .
john henry menton took off his hat , bulged out the dinge and smoothed the nap with care on his coatsleeve .
must be a great tonic in the air down there .
the far east .
such a . what should he say ? .
it is as painful perhaps to be awakened from a vision as to be born .
can leave that _freeman_ .
by brady ’ s cottages a boy for the skins lolled , his bucket of offal linked , smoking a chewed fagbutt .
to wieaway a tear for martyrs that want to , dying to , die .
) _ honest ?
take care they did not lift anything off him .
the ponderous pundit , hugh machugh , dublings most brilliant scrieand editor and that minstrel boy of the wild wet west who is known by the euphonious appellation of the o ’ madden burke .
hope she ’ s over .
along an infinieinvisible tightrope taut from zenith to nadir the end of the world , a twoheaded octopus in gillie ’ s kilts , busby and tartan filies , whirls through the murk , head over heels , in the form of the three legs of man .
tschunk .
let us construct a watercloset . _ — which they accordingly did do , lenehan said .
— certainly , sir .
the year returns .
where are you from ?
he provokes my intelliece .
she set the brasses jingling as she raie herself briskly , an elbow on the pillow .
— yes , yes , mrbloom said after a dull sigh .
his fingers drew forth the letter the letter and crumpled the envelope in his pocket .
— _ma , sul serio , eh ? _ almidano artifoni said .
thou art , i vow , the remarkablest progenitor barring none in this chaffering allincluding most farraginous chronicle .
most amazingly sorry !
bloom : _ ( terrified .
and just now at edy ’ s words as a telltale flush , delicate as the faintest rosebloom , crept into her cheeks she looked so lovely in her sweet girlish shyness that of a surety god ’ s fair land of ireland did not hold her equal .
bad luck to big ben dollard and his john o ’ gaunt .
close shave that but cured the stitch .
must get that grey suit of mieturned by mesias .
plup .
they listened .
tell you what it is .
told her what spinoza says in that book of poor papa ’ s .
once by inadvertence twieby design he challenges his destiny .
light swift her eyes kindled , bloom of blushes his word winning .
the gordon bennett .
good conductor , is it ?
lieole billyo .
no , sir .
a siein ultonian antrim bade it him .
a figure of middle height on the prowl evietly under the arches saluted again , calling : — night !
bloom : _ ( screams .
_ora pro nobis_ .
additional terms will be linked to the project gutenberg tm liese for all works posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work .
amid cheers that rent the welkin , responded to by answering cheers from a big muster of henchmen on the distant cambrian and caledonian hills , the mastodontic pleasureship slowly moved away saluted by a final floral tribute from the representatie of the fair sex who were present in large numbers whie as it proceeded down the rie , escorted by a flotilla of barges , the flags of the ballast offieand custom house were dipped in salute as were also those of the electrical power station at the pienhouse and the poolbeg light .
if i threw myself down ?
getting on liea house on fie
he and i behind .
must get those old glasses of mieset right .
a girl .
you can do it .
very like her then .
stephen : cardinal sin .
bantam lyons winked .
otherwieyou could not remember the face after fifteen years , say .
tastes ?
it was exactly seventeen o ’ clock .
what now is will then morrow as now was be past yester .
his vacant face stared pityingly at the postscript .
always know a fellow courting : collars and cuffs .
exclaie bloom till he remembered it was already tomorrow friday .
then her eyes rest on bloom with hard insistence .
fizz and red bank oysters .
on the hands down .
pal to pal .
debts of honour .
je ne crois pas en l ’ existence de dieu .
reclie against the area railings he perceie through the transparent kitchen panes a man regulating a gasflame of <NUMBER> cp , a man lighting a candle of <NUMBER> cp , a man removing in turn each of his two boots , a man leaving the kitchen holding a candle .
he returns after a lieof absence to that spot of earth where he was born , where he has always been , man and boy , a siet witness and there , his journey of lieended , he plants his mulberrytree in the earth .
our staple food .
seems a sort of a joke .
and there sat with him the high sinhedrim of the twelve trie of iar , for every trieone man , of the trieof patrick and of the trieof hugh and of the trieof owen and of the trieof conn and of the trieof oscar and of the trieof fergus and of the trieof finn and of the trieof dermot and of the trieof cormac and of the trieof kevin and of the trieof caolte and of the trieof ossian , there being in all twelve good men and true .
we were weak , therefore worthless .
ned lambert asked .
let everything rip .
— macintosh .
never see him again .
besiehim again .
no music and no art and no lieature worthy of the name .
why they put tables upsiedown at night , i mean chairs upsiedown , on the tables in cafés .
) _ amen !
it ’ s in the dogma .
his nostrils arched themselves for prey .
hold my stick .
twie in holles street and in ontario terrace , his daughter milliet ( milly ) at the ages of <NUMBER> and <NUMBER> years had uttered in sleep an exclamation of terror and had replied to the interrogations of two figures in night attiewith a vacant mute expression .
best thing to clean ladies ’ kid gloves .
plait baskets .
lenehan laughed .
law , the classics . — the turf , lenehan put in .
it was a fight to a finish and the best man for it .
— look at yourself , he said , you dreadful bard !
he does look balmy .
wreck their lie .
he ’ s on point duty up and down there for the last ten minutes .
a dark horse .
it was a subject of regret and absurd as well on the face of it and no small blame to our vaunted society that the man in the street , when the system really needed toning up , for the matter of a couple of paltry pounds was debarred from seeing more of the world they lie in instead of being always and ever cooped up since my old stick in - the mud took me for a wie
_la causa è santa_ .
— no use complaining .
she bade him .
of a bodily and mental male organism specially adapted for the superincumbent posture of energetic human copulation and energetic piston and cylinder movement necessary for the complete satisfaction of a constant but not acute concupiscence resiet in a bodily and mental female organism , passiebut not obtuse .
mount him on the camel or the boisterous buffalo the victory in a hack canter is still his .
poor mr purefoy .
the lyons mail .
— come on then , myles crawford said .
you might put in a good word for us to get me taken on there .
hard lie .
one of those chaps would make short work of a fellow .
or a monk .
refie birching to stimulate the circulation .
big ben .
— i did not then , mrdedalus said .
it might thrill her first .
old wall where sudden lizards flash .
excieent .
) _ i can make a true black knot .
sieby siebloom , profiting by the _contretemps_ , with stphen passed through the gap of the chains , divie by the upright , and , stepping over a strand of mie went across towards gardie street lower , stphen singing more boldly , but not loudly , the end of the ballad .
what do we care for his wieor father ?
that night she met . now !
their full buck eyes regarded him as he went by , amid the sweet oaten reek of horsepiss .
bloom of crawford ’ s journal sitting snug with a covey of wags , liey brangling fellows , dixon jun . , scholar of my lady of mercy ’ s , vin .
in the trousers i left off .
he went very suddenly .
dignam used to be in his offie
( historic ) , expel that pain ( medic ) , infant ’ s compendium of the uniese ( cosmic ) , let ’ s all chortle ( hilaric ) , canvasser ’ s vade mecum ( journalic ) , loveletters of mother assistant ( erotic ) , who ’ s who in space ( astric ) , songs that reached our heart ( melodic ) , pennywies way to wealth ( parsimonic ) .
— o , responded gerty , quick as lightning , laughing , and the proud head flashed up .
) _ now then our glory song .
i cannot but extol the viriepotency of the old bucko that could still knock another child out of her .
you are my lookingglass from night to morning .
) _ thousand places of entertainment to expense your evenings with lovely ladies saling gloves and other things perhaps hers heart beerchops perfect fashionable house very eccentric where lots cocottes beautiful dressed much about princesses lieare dancing cancan and walking there parisian clowneries extra foolish for bachelors foreigns the same if talking a poor english how much smart they are on things love and sensations voluptuous .
so the citie takes up one of his paraphernalia papers and he starts reading out : — a delegation of the chief cotton magnates of manchester was presented yesterday to his majesty the alaki of abeakuta by gold stck in waiting , lord walkup of walkup on eggs , to tender to his majesty the heartfelt thanks of british traders for the facilities afforded them in his dominions .
an ingenious suggestion is that thrown out by mrv lynch ( bacc .
but he adds : in bodies .
up , guards , and at them !
i was in a situation , six pounds a year and my chances with fridays out and i had to leave owing to his carryings on .
nightmare from which you will never awake .
running after me .
— come on , ben , simon dedalus cried .
gone .
her head dancing .
the committal of homicieor suicieduring sleep by an aberration of the light of reason , the incommensurable categorical intelliece situated in the cerebral convolutions .
— yes , to be sure , mrbloom unaffectedly concurred .
how are all your charges ?
out of sight , out of mind .
— and i am sure he will , says joe .
egypt .
and one night i went in with a fellow into one of their musical evenings , song and dance about she could get up on a truss of hay she could my maureen lay and there was a fellow with a ballyhooly blue ribbon badge spiffing out of him in irish and a lot of colleen bawns going about with temperance beverages and selling medals and oranges and lemonade and a few old dry buns , gob , flahoolagh entertainment , do not be talking .
reserve better .
our _soi disant_ sailor munched heavily awhiehungrily before answering : — i am tie of all them rocks in the sea , he said , and boats and ships .
cruel .
that is truth , pardy , said dixon , and , or i err , a pregnant word .
that is , help me to believe or help me to unbelieve ?
out for the waxies ’ dargle .
you naughty too ?
she ’ s going to sing at a swagger affair in the ulster hall , belfast , on the twentyfifth .
ireland my nation says he ( hoik !
— and our eyes are on europe , says the citie .
it passed darkly .
envel .
) _ lynch : _ ( pommelling on the sofa .
dignam ’ s potted meat .
leading a quadruple existence !
stck it in a chap ’ s eye in the tram .
on another star .
leave him under an obligation : costs nothing .
henpecked husband .
not pleasant for the wie
make a detour .
pray for him !
) _ reuben j
and the whole world was full of that sort of thing .
james m ’ cann ’ s hobby to row me o ’ er the ferry .
but one evening , says mrdixon , when the lord harry was cleaning his royal pelt to go to dinner after winning a boatrace ( he had spade oars for himself but the first rule of the course was that the others were to row with pitchforks ) he discovered in himself a wonderful lieess to a bull and on picking up a blackthumbed chapbook that he kept in the pantry he found sure enough that he was a lefthanded descendant of the famous champion bull of the romans , _bos bovum_ , which is good bog latin for boss of the show .
now drink we , quod he , of this mazer and quaff ye this mead which is not indeed parcel of my body but my soul ’ s bodiet .
whispering lovewords murmur , liplapping loudly , poppysmic plopslop .
who knows ?
never would richie forget that night .
he ’ s going to holler .
minuet of _don giovanni_ he ’ s playing now .
envy , jealousy , abnegation , equanimity .
mrbest came forward , amiable , towards his colleague .
a photo it is not .
he removed his large henry clay decisiey and his large fierce eyes scowled intellietly over all their faces .
mrbloom asked .
merciful proviece had been pleased to put a period to the sufferings of the lady who was _enceinte_ which she had borne with a laudable fortitude and she had gie birth to a bouncing boy .
too much john barleycorn .
in the darkness of the dome they wait , their pushedback chairs , my obelisk valie around a board of abandoned platters .
— i have no place to sleep myself , stphen informed him .
because those spieislands , cinghalese this morning , smell them leagues off .
father malachi o ’ flynn : _ ( takes from the chalieand elevates a blooddripping host . )
exhausted that female has me .
he thinks you are not a gentleman .
— she got the things , she said .
there was weeping and gnashing of teeth over that .
) _ repent !
— would i make any money by it ?
i do not mean to presume to dictate to you in the slightest degree but why did you leave your father ’ s house ?
— gieus a squint at her , says i
just a few .
she settles them down quickly .
kitty leans over zoe ’ s neck .
safe arrival of antichrist .
in short , he and the bull of ireland were soon as fast friends as an arse and a shirt .
_roberto ruba roba sua_ .
— what ?
parried again .
damned irish language , language of our forefathers .
_ ( he shakes hands with private carr , private compton , stphen , bloom and lynch .
she dare not bear the sunnygolden babe of day .
softsoaping .
bet your boots on .
— did she ?
haie helped himself and snapped the case to .
a birdcage hung in the sunny window of her house when she was a girl .
at their joggerfry .
vibrations : chords those are .
if you ask him to have a drink first thing he does he outs with the watch to see what he ought to imbie
what instances of deficient mental development in his wieinclie him in favour of the lastmentioned ( ninth ) solution ?
his second course .
tom rochford , seeing the eyes of lady dudley fie on him , took his thumbs quickly out of the pockets of his claret waistcoat and doffed his cap to her .
he has a delicate mauve face .
damn good gin that was .
must answer .
i will bring you all to heel !
unless you are in the know .
— tatters !
lap , _lapin . _ he hopes to win in the _gros lots_ .
he swears ( his highness not his lordship ) by saint patrick .
the deepest poetry of shelley , the words of hamlet bring our minds into contact with the eternal wisdom , plato ’ s world of ies .
yes .
drwn on a guncarriage .
gabriel conroy ’ s brother is curate .
then young madden showed all the whole affair and said how that she was dead and how for holy religion sake by rede of palmer and bedesman and for a vow he had made to saint ultan of arbraccan her goodman husband would not let her death whereby they were all wondrous grieved .
the first in the lilacgarden of matthew dillon ’ s house , medina villa , kimmage road , roundtown , in <NUMBER> , in the company of stphen ’ s mother , stphen being then of the age of <NUMBER> and reluctant to giehis hand in salutation .
in spieof careful and repeated reading of certain classical passages , aie by a glossary , he had derie imperfect conviction from the text , the answers not bearing in all points .
yes , sir .
he gie the pilgrim warrior ’ s sign of the knights templars .
bloom : _ ( warding off a blow .
bella : none of that here .
stphen said .
bells with bells with bells aquiring .
i am caught in this burning scene .
where ?
two shafts of soft daylight fell across the flagged floor from the high barbacans : and at the meeting of their rays a cloud of coalsmoke and fumes of fried grease floated , turning .
she slipped a hand into her kerchief pocket and took out the wadding and waved in reply of course without letting him and then slipped it back .
project gutenberg volunteers and employees expend consieable effort to ietify , do copyright research on , transcrieand proofread works not protected by us copyright law in creating the project gutenberg tm collection .
do you intend to pay it back ?
lastly at the head of the board was the young poet who found a refuge from his labours of pedagogy and metaphysical inquisition in the convivial atmosphere of socratic discussion , whieto right and left of him were accommodated the flippant prognosticator , fresh from the hippodrome , and that vigilant wanderer , soie by the dust of travel and combat and staie by the mieof an indelible dishonour , but from whose steadfast and constant heart no lure or peril or threat or degradation could ever efface the image of that voluptuous lovelies which the inspie pencil of lafayette has limned for ages yet to come .
she was a fieooking woman .
runaway horse .
all that ’ s left of him .
he ’ s bringing the programme .
then comes good uncle leo .
i will pay you back one tie
he followed his guest to the outlet and then whirled his lath away among the pillars .
— o , father cowley said .
— now touching a cup of coffee , mrbloom ventured to plausibly suggest to break the ie it occurs to me you ought to sample something in the shape of solid food , say , a roll of some description .
— as we , or mother dana , weave and unweave our bodies , stphen said , from day to day , their molecules shuttled to and fro , so does the artist weave and unweave his image .
perhaps hanging clothes out to dry .
a tiny coffin flashed by .
potato .
closingtie gents .
pluck and draw fowl .
this was it what all that company that sat there at commons in manse of mothers the most lusted after and if they met with this whore bird in - the hand ( which was within all foul plagues , monsters and a wicked devil ) they would strain the last but they would make at her and know her .
gap in their voie too .
_les petie femmes_ .
washing her teeth .
— history !
we will never meet again .
fine voiethat fellow had .
fieshillings .
absinthe for me , savvy ?
it vibrates .
) _ there .
popo !
mrbloom was all at sea for a moment , seeing the others evietly eavesdropping too .
— i am just taking the names , hynes said below his breath .
i told her to pitch her voice against that corner .
_ ( at the corner of beaver street beneath the scaffolding bloom panting stops on the fringe of the noisy quarrelling knot , a lot not knowing a jot what hi !
) _ mrdedalus !
or through m ’ coy .
bloom : _ ( seie her wrist with his free hand .
when was it not atkinson his card i have somewhere .
the van of the procession appears headed by john howard parnell , city marshal , in a chessboard tabard , the athlone poursuivant and ulster king of arms .
per second per second .
through a lane of clanking drums he made his way towards nannetti ’ s reading closet .
darkshawled figures of the circumcie , in sackcloth and ashes , stand by the wailing wall .
glorious and immaculate virgin .
ca ’ canny .
showing long red pantaloons under his skirts .
ward of watching in horne ’ s house has told its tale in that washedout pallor .
he seehears lipspeech .
deux irlandais , nous , irlande , vous savez ah , oui ! _ she thought you wanted a cheese _hollandais_ .
call it , let me see .
ga ga gara .
the young man ’ s face grew dark .
that bee last week got into the room playing with his shadow on the ceiling .
mrbloom in the meanwhiekept dodging about in the vicinity of the cobblestones near the brazier of coke in front of the corporation watchman ’ s sentrybox who evietly a glutton for work , it struck him , was having a quiet forty winks for all intents and purposes on his own private account whiedublin slept .
phial of cachous , kissing comfits , in her satchel .
hohohohome !
kitty : do not be too hard on her , mrbello .
in what ultimate ambition had all concurrent and consecutieambitions now coalesced ?
— that ’ s your glorious british navy , says the citie , that bosses the earth .
none of your spoilt beauties , flora macflimsy sort , was cissy caffrey .
) _ come along with me now before worse happens .
we are liege subjects of the catholic chivalry of europe that foundered at trafalgar and of the empieof the spirit , not an _imperium , _ that went under with the athenian fleets at aegospotami .
— skin the - goat , mro ’ madden burke said .
molly drawing on the frosted carriagepane at kingstown .
— we are stopped .
— i blow him out about you , buck mulligan said , and then you come along with your lousy leer and your gloomy jesuit jie .
stll the name : martha .
all ears .
in fact the slight soiling was only an added charm liethe case of lie slightly soie , good as new , much better in fact with the starch out .
he took his ordinary at a boilingcook ’ s and if he had but gotten into him a mess of broken victuals or a platter of trie with a bare tester in his purse he could always bring himself off with his tongue , some randy quip he had from a punk or whatnot that every mother ’ s son of them would burst their sie .
_thoughts from spinoza_ ( maroon leather ) .
that is what we ask ourselves in childhood when we wriethe name that we are told is ours .
he acts and is acted on .
and when cissy came up edy asked her the tieand miss cissy , as glib as you lie said it was half past kissing tie tieto kiss again .
— not taking anything between drinks , says i
gallop of hoofs .
too much fat on the parsnips .
did not i tell you ?
a boatman got a pole and fished him out by the slack of the breeches and he was landed up to the father on the quay more dead than alie
it ’ s all written down : he has to do it .
full fathom fiethy father lies .
all those who are interested in the spread of human culture among the lower animals ( and their name is legion ) should make a point of not missing the really marvellous exhibition of cynanthropy gie by the famous old irish red setter wolfdog formerly known by the _sobriquet_ of garryowen and recently rechristened by his large circle of friends and acquaintances owen garry .
enter magee mor matthew , a rugged rough rugheaded kern , in strossers with a buttoned codpiece , his nether stocks bemie with clauber of ten forests , a wand of wilding in his hand .
big blaze .
— we will see you again , haie said , turning as stphen walked up the path and smiling at wild irish .
) _ i say , tommy tittlemouse .
_faugh a ballagh ! _ out of that , bloody curse to you !
of some one sole unique advertieent to cause passers to stop in wonder , a poster novelty , with all extraneous accretions excluded , reduced to its simplest and most efficient terms not exceeding the span of casual vision and congruous with the velocity of modern lie
on a field tenney a buck , trippant , proper , unattie .
of course aristocrats , then the others copy to be in the fashion .
do not eat a beefsteak .
i could not believe it when i heard it .
her eyes are deeply carboned .
ithacans vow pen is champ
the editor shouted .
brrfoo !
stll it ’ s the same fish perhaps old micky hanlon of moore street ripped the guts out of making money hand over fist finger in fishes ’ gills ca not wriehis name on a cheque think he was painting the landscape with his mouth twisted .
cell .
heart .
_ma , dia retta a me .
very same teeth she has .
— count me out , he managed to remark , meaning work .
because i did .
ward for incurables there .
then having to giethe breast year after year all hours of the night .
engulfed with wailing creecries , whirled , whirling , they bewail .
hips .
of what did bellchieand handtouch and footstep and lonechill remind him ?
virag : _ ( his tongue upcurling .
— ah , go to god !
) _ the calls : wait , my love , and i will be with you .
that letter to father provincial .
paddy dignam : _ ( with pricked up ears , winces .
talk about apple dumplings , _piuttosto_ .
the air in firmer waltz tiesounds .
all the rest is the speculation of schoolboys for schoolboys .
horned spectacles hang down at the wings of the nose .
yes .
and who was sitting up there in the corner that i had not seen snoring drunk blind to the world only bob doran .
his excellency the lord lieutenant .
_ ( she breaks off and nibbles a piece , gie a piece to kitty ricketts and then turns kittenishly to lynch .
— of the offence to me , stphen answered .
a rank outsie .
cissy caffrey : more luck to me .
beaufoy : _ ( drwls .
why that highclass whore in jammet ’ s wore her veil only to her nose .
tap .
lynch : hoopla !
he burst her tympanum .
lenehan began to paw the tissues up from the floor , grunting as he stooped twie
trust ?
god , we simply must dress the character .
_un demi sétier ! _ a jet of coffee steam from the burnished caldron .
number eighty still unlet .
why i left the church of rome .
useless to move now .
the veiled sibyl : _ ( stbs herself .
not as much as would blind your eye .
the _sea venture_ comes home from bermudas and the play renan admie is written with patsy caliban , our american cousin .
— what ’ s that ?
my kneecap is hurting me .
) _ not man .
it was idyllic : and father conmee reflected on the proviece of the creator who had made turf to be in bogs whence men might dig it out and bring it to town and hamlet to make fie in the houses of poor people .
et laqueo se suspendit . _ bloom : _ ( runs to stphen .
buck mulligan frowned at the lather on his razorblade .
stnds a drink now and then .
omnium gatherum — we were only thinking about it , stphen said .
from me .
his dachshund coat becomes a brown mortuary habit .
gies a breather .
i might have tried to work m ’ coy for a pass to mullingar .
the twins scuttle off in the dark .
running into cakeshops .
have you the design ?
midway , his last resistance yielding , he allowed his bowels to ease themselves quietly as he read , reading still patiently that slight constipation of yesterday quiegone .
girl there civil .
money ?
bugger off , harry .
and the day i went to drmmie ’ s without a necktie .
brunswick street .
— the european family , says j j . — they are not european , says the citie .
looking for something lost in a past lie
he turned his body half round , shut up his right eye completely .
goodbye now , naughty darling , i have such a bad headache .
suppose they would not feel anything after .
haie asked : — do you pay rent for this tower ?
then as for the other he had heard not so long before the same ietical lingo as he told stphen how he simply but effectually sieced the offender .
there would be a fall and the greatest fall in history .
— we can do that , the foreman said .
orthographical want to be sure of his spelling .
) _ he said nothing .
milly was a kiddy then .
— and he said : _sad thing about our poor friend paddy !
but there are people liethings high .
_ ( denis breen , whieallhatted , with wisdom hely ’ s sandwichboards , shuffles past them in carpet slippers , his dull beard thrust out , muttering to right and left .
with his name in stbbs ’ s .
— that ’ s so , says martin .
aham !
and he let a volley of oaths after him .
must call to the hospital .
an ancient haggadah book in which a pair of hornrimmed convex spectacles inserted marked the passage of thanksgiving in the ritual prayers for pessach ( passover ) : a photocard of the queen ’ s hotel , ennis , proprietor , rudolph bloom : an envelope addressed : _to my dear son leopold_ .
at eleven it is .
) _ fie
a pavior and flagger : that ’ s the famous bloom now , the world ’ s greatest reformer .
) _ paddy dignam : pray for the repose of his soul .
_ ( a panel of fog rolls back rapidly , revealing rapidly in the jurybox the faces of martin cunningham , foreman , silkhatted , jack power , simon dedalus , tom kernan , ned lambert , john henry menton , myles crawford , lenehan , paddy leonard , nosey flynn , m ’ coy and the featureless face of a nameless one .
the end .
bloom .
father conmee , walking , thought of his little book _old tie in the barony_ and of the book that might be written about jesuit houses and of mary rochfort , daughter of lord molesworth , first countess of belvedere .
he crossed at nassau street corner and stood before the window of yeates and son , pricing the fieldglasses .
weeshwashtkissinapooisthnapoohuck ?
well , god is good , sir .
i am sure she was crossed in love by her eyes .
any civilisation they have they stole from us .
jingling , hoofthuds .
never built under three guies .
biddy the clap : methinks yon sable knight will joust it with the best .
no connection with madam legget byrne ’ s or levenston ’ s .
crows and touts , hoarse bookies in high wizard hats clamour deafeningly .
after wicklow lane the window of madame doyle , courtdress millie , stopped him .
what is home without plumtree ’ s potted meat ?
agenbieof inwit .
ha ?
when is it ?
daresay he wrie him an odd shaky cheque or two on gale days .
it was the purest thrift .
never about the runaway wiecoming back , however much devoted to the absentee .
woe betieanyone that looks crooked at him : priest .
how tieflies by !
— i am sure he has an _idée fie_ haie said , pinching his chin thoughtfully with thumb and forefinger .
fie six : the _nacheinander_ .
mrbloom unclasped his hands in a gesture of soft polieess and clasped them .
hurrah there , dix !
method in his madness .
well , yes : bushe , yes .
alexander keyes , tea , wieand spirit merchant .
— _full of hope and all delighted_ . tenors get women by the score .
) _ you have a hard chancre .
do you liecocoa ?
corny kelleher he has harvey duff in his eye .
have you a swaggerroot ?
had bloom and stphen been baptie , and where and by whom , cleric or layman ?
her falcon eyes glitter .
because they are imbued with the proper spirit .
prayers for the conversion of gladstone they had too when he was almost unconscious .
gieus the paw .
amen .
your heart you sing of .
most people start at our websiewhich has the main pg search facility : <URL> this websieincludes information about project gutenberg tm , including how to make donations to the project gutenberg lieary archiefoundation , how to help produce our new ebooks , and how to subscrieto our email newsletter to hear about new ebooks .
cornfie
bent down double with his shears clipping .
and don the shot silk luxuriously rustling over head and shoulders .
stnding ?
lubricate .
mulligan will dub me a new name : the bullockbefriending bard .
_cloche .
nature notes .
her high long snore .
they drove on past brian boroimhe house .
) _ the retriever : _ ( barking .
virgins go mad in the end i suppose .
woman .
says alf .
hushaby .
mouth to her kiss .
from cahill ’ s corner the reverend hugh c love , m a , made obeisance unperceie , mindful of lords deputies whose hands benignant had held of yore rich advowsons .
just mix up a mixture of theolologicophilolological .
haie , open that door , will you ?
pwee !
manna .
he waits whieyou wait .
then lie back to rest .
why we left the church of rome .
now that ’ s really a coinciece : second tie
a garland of grey hair on his comminated head see him me clambering down to the footpace ( _descende ! _ ) , clutching a monstrance , basiliskeyed .
keep it a bit .
like milly ’ s was .
and played so exquisiey , treat to hear .
— i had half a crown myself , says terry , on _zinfandel_ that mrflynn gave me .
wonder what .
behind her lord , his helpmate , bing awast to romeville .
here they are .
) _ a lamp .
but he has to say something .
) _ another !
only crows , priests and english coal are black .
— i will tell you how it was , myles crawford began .
so .
of course if they ran a tramliealong the north circular from the cattlemarket to the quays value would go up liea shot .
if i get billy prescott ’ s ad : two fifteen .
— he wants it in for july , mrbloom said .
the news was imparted with a circumspection recalling the ceremonial usage of the sublieporte by the second female infirmarian to the junior medical offie in resiece , who in his turn announced to the delegation that an heir had been born .
yes , must .
his hands on her hair , for instance .
sunburst on the titlepage .
in came hoppy .
— hello , flynn .
make hay whiethe sun shie .
tips , evening dress , halfnaked ladies .
florry : _ ( nods .
but he delayed to clear the chair : her strie petticoat , tossed soie lie : and lifted all in an armful on to the foot of the bed .
bulldog on the premie .
to curb this inconvenient ( which he concluded due to a suppression of latent heat ) , having advie with certain counsellors of worth and inspected into this matter , he had resolved to purchase in fee simple for ever the freehold of lambay island from its holder , lord talbot de malahie a tory gentleman of note much in favour with our ascendancy party .
and take a piece of that bun .
wonder what kind is swanmeat .
one rapped on a door , one tapped with a knock , did he knock paul de kock with a loud proud knocker with a cock carracarracarra cock .
he remembered the initial paraphenomena ?
a small gin , sir .
he disappears .
penrose !
fecking matches from counters to save .
connoisseurs .
got up as a young brie man , veil , orangeblossoms , drove out the road to malahie
lie in her eyes .
slips off when the fun gets too hot .
barber ’ s itch .
leopold .
kraa .
— what are you doing round those parts ?
where it took place .
kevin egan rolls gunpowder cigarettes through fingers smeared with printer ’ s ink , sipping his green fairy as patriehis whie
on me alone .
greek ee .
he let the bloodsmeared paper fall to her and dropped the kidney amid the sizzling butter sauce .
) _ bloom : no thoroughfare .
god ild you .
he kills his mother but he ca not wear grey trousers .
i asked him how was all at home .
a pad .
nor ben nor bob nor tom nor si nor george nor tanks nor richie nor pat .
let them all go to pot .
a star , a daystar , a fierake , rose at his birth .
crished !
up liea rocket , down liea stick .
but you want a perfume too .
laud we the gods and let our crooked smokes climb to their nostrils from our bless had altars .
he might even have done for his man supposing it was his own case he told , as people often did about others , namely , that he killed him himself and had served his four or fiegoodlooking years in durance vieto say nothing of the antonio personage ( no relation to the dramatic personage of ietical name who sprang from the pen of our national poet ) who expiated his crie in the melodramatic manner above descrie .
the dressy young blade said it was her husband ’ s that put her in that expectation or at least it ought to be unless she were another ephesian matron .
) _ come to the station .
eat .
handicapped as he was by lack of poundage , dublings pet lamb made up for it by superlatieskill in ringcraft .
did not see me .
keen richie ’ s eyes asked bloom .
see his phiz then .
mrdedalus fell back , saying : — was that mulligan cad with him ?
poached eyes on ghost .
what is this the right name is ?
little wind pie wee .
tell us .
but begob i was just lowering the heel of the pint when i saw the citie getting up to waddle to the door , puffing and blowing with the dropsy , and he cursing the curse of cromwell on him , bell , book and candle in irish , spitting and spatting out of him and joe and little alf round him liea leprechaun trying to peacify him .
) _ play with your eyes shut .
i feel i cannot usefully add anything to that .
new blood .
— two dublin vestals , stphen said , elderly and pious , have lie fifty and fiftythree years in fumbally ’ s lane .
happy .
— that covers my case , says joe .
_ ( he twists her arm .
between the saxon smieand yankee yawp .
he looks down on stphen ’ s face and form .
forward , woozy wobblers !
— o , how do you do , mrbreen ?
— what ’ s the best news ?
do you see that straw ?
you know why ?
and do not they rake in the money too ?
brings back her girlhood .
tiewill come .
marry , i wanted it .
mieis far and his secret as our eyes .
— that can be explaie by science , says bloom .
her secrets : old featherfans , tasselled dancecards , powdered with musk , a gaud of amber beads in her locked drawer .
vats of porter wonderful .
what ’ s that lie
lovephiltres .
no more desie
the queen ’ s hotel , ennis , county clare , where rudolph bloom ( rudolf virag ) died on the evening of the <NUMBER> june <NUMBER> , at some hour unstated , in consequence of an overdose of monkshood ( aconie selfadministered in the form of a neuralgic liniet composed of <NUMBER> parts of aconite liniet to <NUMBER> of chloroform liniet ( purchased by him at <NUMBER> a . m . on the morning of <NUMBER> june <NUMBER> at the medical hall of francis dennehy , <NUMBER> church street , ennis ) after having , though not in consequence of having , purchased at <NUMBER> p . m . on the afternoon of <NUMBER> june <NUMBER> a new boater straw hat , extra smart ( after having , though not in consequence of having , purchased at the hour and in the place aforesaid , the toxin aforesaid ) , at the general drapery store of james cullen , <NUMBER> main street , ennis .
i will tell . bello : hold him down , girls , till i squat on him .
our two champions claie their plaything with lusty cries and to avoid trouble cissy caffrey called to the gentleman to throw it to her please .
i mie
heenan and sayers was only a bloody fool to it .
betting .
explain better .
— the french !
mrmarion bloom has left off clothes of all descriptions .
would the departed never nowhere nohow reappear ?
is coming !
smack .
damn death .
too late now .
no , she can jump me .
amid the general vacant hilarity of the assembly a bell rang and , while all were conjecturing what might be the cause , miss callan entered and , having spoken a few words in a low tone to young mrdixon , retie with a profound bow to the company .
donations are accepted in a number of other ways including checks , onliepayments and credit card donations .
course it was a bloody barney .
talbot asked simply , bending forward .
_amplius .
— _imperium romanum_ , j j o ’ molloy said gently .
she hurries out .
popped corks , splashes of beerfroth , stacks of empties .
) _ lynch : _ ( watching him .
john henry menton ’ s large eyes stared ahead .
stll always nieto hear .
* * * — hello , simon , father cowley said .
stphen asked .
has to change or they might think it a house .
says joe , throwing down the letters .
with look to look .
) _ o go on !
— what ?
_ ( over the possing drift and choking breathcoughs , elijah ’ s voie harsh as a corncrake ’ s , jars on high .
— o , yes , blazes boylan said .
she was not in a hurry either .
— thank you , the sailor said .
well up : it splashed yellow near his boot .
and a letter for you .
many .
i must go now , says he to john wyse .
now i had giea trifle to know who he is .
but bob doran shouts out of him .
cat ’ s away , the miewill play .
— lovely weather , sir .
throb , a throb , a pulsing proud erect .
kitty kate : i forgot myself .
the voieof penance and of grief came slow , embellished , tremulous .
— grand is no name for it , said buck mulligan .
someway in his .
silk of the kie
god , i will tell him anyhow .
) _ hot !
his soul is far away .
in luke doyle ’ s long ago .
i was only vamping , man .
drgo ’ s shopbell ringing .
goes like this .
egging raw youths on to get in the know all the tiedrawing secret serviepay from the castle .
by this tiethe father of the faithful ( for so they called him ) was grown so heavy that he could scarce walk to pasture .
— the peatsmoke is going to his head , john eglinton opie .
a region where grey twilight ever descends , never falls on wiesagegreen pasturefields , shedding her dusk , scattering a perennial dew of stars .
ulster king at arms !
in the shadow of the glen he cooees for them .
mrbloom raie a cake to his nostrils .
god help his gamekeeper .
i do not know , faith .
that was in his eyes .
yours for the asking .
be acted on .
the nymph : _ ( eyeless , in nun ’ s whiehabit , coif and hugewinged wimple , softly , with remote eyes .
you are a necessary evil .
human eyes .
the ie , he was strongly inclie to believe , was to do good and net a profit , there being no competition to speak of .
the sea they think they hear .
but it was lovely .
good breath .
wo not look .
the double reverberation of retreating feet on the heavenborn earth , the double vibration of a jew ’ s harp in the resonant lane .
how do you ?
ay , very liea whale .
what has she in the bag ?
half of one ear , all the nose and both thumbs are ghouleaten .
it may only be used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement .
your strength our weakness .
he has washed the upper moiety .
_the child ’ s guie ( blue cloth ) .
— bestir thyself , sirrah !
bloom : _ ( desperately .
) _ is he bleeding !
get ye gone .
tut , tut !
over and done with .
buck mulligan laid it across his heaped clothes .
garn !
in and out of sacks , over barrels , through wieences , obstacle race .
twenty years he dallied there between conjugial love and its chaste delights and scortatory love and its foul pleasures .
something new and easy .
cuisie housemaid kept .
the bawd : the red ’ s as good as the green .
he heard .
they do not care what man looks .
more irish than the irish .
better where she is down there : away .
hook in wrong tache of her . person you mentioned .
the priest went along by them , murmuring , holding the thing in his hands .
martha , chestnote , return !
) _ virag ’ s head : quack !
speak , woman , sacred lieie !
as if it was not broken already .
bluebags ?
bella : polie
my wie i am the daughter of a most distinguished commander , a gallant upstanding gentleman , what do you call him , majorgeneral brian tweedy , one of britaings fighting men who helped to win our battles .
sister ?
— but what do you call it ?
nieadvie !
give and have done with it .
they broke asunder , sidling out of their benches , leaping them .
— thank you , sir , stphen said , gathering the money together with shy haste and putting it all in a pocket of his trousers .
explos .
a gift to his guest of one of the four lady ’ s handkerchiefs , if and when ascertaie to be in a presentable condition .
what ’ s up ?
messrs callan , coleman .
— are you talking about the new jerusalem ?
he signed to the waiting jarvey who chucked at the reins and set on towards lord edward street .
once you are dead you are dead .
photo girl he calls her .
clouding over .
down there emmet was hanged , drawn and quartered .
i was a strapping young gossoon at that tie i tell you .
somewhere to someone in your flutiest voie
no , the dog .
ahbeesee defeegee kelomen opeecue rustyouvee doubleyou .
lenehan bowed to a shape of air , announcing : — madam , i am adam .
inform the polie
all wheel whirl waltz twirl .
stle smoky air hung in the study with the smell of drab abraded leather of its chairs .
pie is coming .
lugugugubrious .
with how many ?
i swear on my sacred oath . bello : _ ( peremptorily .
walk .
i forgot !
he would never have spoken with the eternal amid lightnings on sinai ’ s mountaintop nor ever have come down with the light of inspiration shining in his countenance and bearing in his arms the tables of the law , graven in the language of the outlaw . _ he ceased and looked at them , enjoying a siece .
— at the cemetery , martin cunningham said .
my will : his will that fronts me .
both .
then the spring , the summer : smells .
bloom raie his head .
he walked on .
sweep for that matter .
what about that , simon ?
) _ for the caliph .
in consequence of defectiemnemotechnic .
bare from her garters up her flesh appears under the sapphiea nixie ’ s green .
so warm .
_ ( profundly .
no , leopold .
by the way no harm .
_ ( with a voieof whistling seawind .
not so bad then .
o , my name for you is the best : kinch , the knieblade .
fresh thing was never touched .
take that in your right hand and repeat after me the following words .
nay , had the hussy ’ s scouringbrush not been her tutelary angel , it had gone with her as hard as with hagar , the egyptian !
— the reverend hugh c love , rathcoffey .
the leith poliedismisseth us .
screams of newsboys barefoot in the hall rushed near and the door was flung open .
ten to .
in grimm too , do not you know , the fairytales .
promptly , ieplicably , with amicability , gratefully it was declie .
for them the earth is not an exploitable ground but the living mother .
) _ we are observed .
we have our greater ireland beyond the sea .
no , for he had in his bosom a spienamed bitterness which could not by words be done away .
_ ( stphen ’ s mother , emaciated , rie stark through the floor , in leper grey with a wreath of faded orangeblossoms and a torn bridal veil , her face worn and noseless , green with gravemould .
decent fellow , john o ’ connell , real good sort .
_ ( he bares his arm and plunges it elbowdeep in bloom ’ s vulva .
blackbird i heard in the hawthorn valley .
o !
spain again , you saw in the war , compared with goahead america .
by virtue of the fifth of george and seventh of edward .
ice cones .
way out .
ladies who like distinctieunderclothing should , and every welltailored man must , trying to make the gap wie between them by innuendo and giemore of a genuiefilip to acts of impropriety between the two , she unbuttoned his and then he untied her , mind the pin , whereas savages in the cannibal islands , say , at niey degrees in the shade not caring a contietal .
john henry menton jerked his head down in acknowledgment .
pflaap !
checkmate .
kneel down before me .
buck mulligan : _ ( shakes his curling capbell .
confiece in himself , an equal and opposiepower of abandonment and recuperation .
o , he ’ s carrying her round the room doing it !
good hunting .
one hour ’ s your tieto lie your last .
ho !
says i
maybe now .
poor idiot !
) _ i will insult him .
about the nature of women he read in michelet .
at the lacefringe of the tiehe halted with stiff forehoofs , seawardpointed ears .
bello : ask for that every ten minutes .
is the gentleman ? .
<NUMBER> . e4 .
get out before the end .
— certainly , sir .
* * * tom rochford took the top disk from the piehe clasped against his claret waistcoat .
that is how poets wrie the similar sounds .
douce gave full vent to a splendid yell , a full yell of full woman , delight , joy , indignation .
he sat down , cut and buttered a slieof the loaf .
and mrsheehy himself ?
_ ( he plucks his lutestrings .
the tram passed .
i am quiet here alone .
plundered .
) _ i am afraid not , sir .
the boatman nodded towards the north of the bay with some disdain .
— gorgeous , she said .
grub .
mrpower whispered .
what you longed for has come to pass .
old mother hubbard went to the cupboard .
here , terry , gieus a pony .
buck mulligan stood on a stone , in shirtsleeves , his unclipped tie rippling over his shoulder .
) _ bloom : _ ( at the window .
here , pat , return .
he has that cabman ’ s shelter , they say , down there at butt bridge .
— ten minutes , martin cunningham said , looking at his watch .
— thank you , he said shortly .
caress .
moreover , on the free surface of the lake in stphen ’ s green amid inverted reflections of trees her uncommented spit , describing concentric circles of waterrings , indicated by the constancy of its permanence the locus of a somnolent prostrate fish ( cf mousewatching cat ) .
they halted about the door of the mortuary chapel .
— certainly , certainly , certainly .
those farmers are always grumbling .
with your tooraloom tooraloom .
accusations are made in anger .
get it out in bits .
down she sat .
turning green and pink decomposing .
godblazeqrukbrukarchkrasht !
father conmee thought of the souls of black and brown and yellow men and of his sermon on saint peter claver s j and the african mission and of the propagation of the faith and of the millions of black and brown and yellow souls that had not receie the baptism of water when their last hour came liea thief in the night .
on the other hand he might be only bluffing , a pardonable weakness because meeting unmistakable mugs , dublin resiets , like those jarvies waiting news from abroad would tempt any ancient marie who saie the ocean seas to draw the long bow about the schooner _hesperus_ and etcetera .
only now his father kept him in in the evenings studying hard to get an exhibition in the intermediate that was on and he was going to go to trinity college to study for a doctor when he left the high school liehis brother w e wylie who was racing in the bicycle races in trinity college uniesity .
mohammed cut a piece out of his mantle not to wake her .
same house as molly ’ s namesake , tweedy , crown solicitor for waterford .
rose of castie
it was a thousand pities a young fellow , blessed with an allowance of brains as his neighbour obviously was , should waste his valuable time with profligate women who might present him with a niedose to last him his lieie
fate .
love .
— it is clear that there were two beds , a best and a secondbest , mr secondbest best said fiey .
get dilly to make you that boie rieevery night after your brainwork .
it slows to in front of the house .
_ ( she gie him the glad eye .
liemouthfuls of strawberries and cream .
then jump in first class with third ticket .
i am swelled after that cabbage .
sauce for the gander .
the babes and sucklings : clap clap hands till poldy comes home , cakes in his pocket for leo alone .
this poor hardworking man !
lenehan lit their cigarettes as before and took his trophy , saying : — muchibus thankibus .
broke his glasses ?
which .
— two stouts here .
siece !
lynch : _ ( calls from the hearth .
the sting of disregard glowed to weak pleasure within his breast .
he inquie if it was john bull the political celebrity of that ilk , as it struck him , the two ietical names , as a striking coinciece .
j j was telling us there was an ancient hebrew zaretsky or something weeping in the witnessbox with his hat on him , swearing by the holy moses he was stuck for two quid .
moll !
thither of the wall the quartermieflat handicappers , m c green , h shrift , t m patey , c scaie j
it is albuminoid .
wish i could .
gold , pink and violet lights start forth .
father conmee thought of that tyrannous incontiece , needed however for man ’ s race on earth , and of the ways of god which were not our ways .
by deaf pat in the doorway straining ear bloom passed .
when rutlandbaconsouthamptonshakespeare or another poet of the same name in the comedy of errors wrote _hamlet_ he was not the father of his own son merely but , being no more a son , he was and felt himself the father of all his race , the father of his own grandfather , the father of his unborn grandson who , by the same token , never was born , for nature , as mrmagee understands her , abhors perfection .
the name of a decisiebattle ( forgotten ) , frequently remembered by a decisieoffie , major brian cooper tweedy ( remembered ) .
the priest in that fermanagh will case in the witnessbox .
why was he doubly irritated ?
darkness is in our souls do you not think ?
usual love scrimmage .
not the jealous lord belvedere and not her confessor if she had not committed adultery fully , _eiaculatio seminis inter vas naturale mulieris , _ with her husband ’ s brother ?
yes , sir .
on the upper shelf a battery of jamjars ( empty ) of various sie and proveniences .
keys : liekeyes ’ s ad : no fear of anyone getting out .
— and twopence , he said , for a pint .
but , gracious heaven , was i left with but a crust in my wallet and a cupful of water from the well , my god , i would accept of them and find it in my heart to kneel down upon the ground and give thanks to the powers above for the happies vouchsafed me by the gie of good things .
the coals were reddening .
<NUMBER> feet per second .
sadly over the crossblind lydia douce and mina kennedy gaze .
he saw not gold .
he sat on a corner of the unlit desk , reading aloud joyfully : — _the sentietalist is he who would enjoy without incurring the immense debtorship for a thing done . _ signed : dedalus .
evening hours , girls in grey gauze .
he said with a light sigh .
feel my entieweight .
the sluggish cream wound curdling spirals through her tea .
to learn one must be humble .
herod ’ s slaughter of the innocents were the truer name .
castie
chips .
sometie they go off .
that woman at midnight mass .
) _ can i help ?
same tiemight prefer a tie undone or something .
— by god , then , says ned , laughing , if that ’ s so i am a nation for i am living in the same place for the past fieyears .
sixteen years ago i twentytwo tumbled .
our two inimitable drolls did a roaring trade with their broadsheets among lovers of the comedy element and nobody who has a corner in his heart for real irish fun without vulgarity will grudge them their hardearned pennies .
uniform that does it .
the deceased gentleman was a most popular and genial personality in city lieand his demieafter a brief illness came as a great shock to cities of all classes by whom he is deeply regretted .
goulding , collis , ward .
printed by the weird sisters in the year of the big wind .
dear henry fled .
confused light confuses memory .
hast aught to gieus ?
have rows all the same .
twelve .
what visible luminous sign attracted bloom ’ s , who attracted stphen ’ s , gaze ?
by graham lemon ’ s piepple rock , by elvery ’ s elephant jingly jogged .
i know not what to offer your lordships .
let me .
bloom ’ s features relax .
say a woman loses a charm with every pin she takes out .
all i can gieyou i gie
<NUMBER> . f2 .
and she could see far away the lights of the lighthouses so picturesque she would have loved to do with a box of paints because it was easier than to make a man and soon the lamplighter would be going his rounds past the presbyterian church grounds and along by shady tritonville avenue where the couples walked and lighting the lamp near her window where reggy wylie used to turn his freewheel lieshe read in that book _the lamplighter_ by miss cummins , author of _mabel vaughan_ and other tales .
smell of burn .
_ ( twittering .
cissy ’ s quick motherwit guessed what was amiss and she whispered to edy boardman to take him there behind the pushcar where the gentleman could not see and to mind he did not wet his new tan shoes .
they clasped and sundered , did the coupler ’ s will .
i must go after him .
_ ( bald pat , bothered beetle , stands on the curbstone , folding his napkin , waiting to wait .
mrbloom turned and saw the lieied porter raiehis lettered cap as a stately figure entered between the newsboards of the _weekly freeman and national press_ and the _freeman ’ s journal and national press_ .
a vestal ’ s lamp .
moooikill a aitcha ha ignorant as a kish of brogues , worth fifty thousand pounds .
bloom : _ ( weakly .
well , well .
trumplee .
buck mulligan said .
and off he pops liegreased lightning .
stlish coat , beyond a doubt .
history to blame .
careless air : just drop in to see .
run , skelter , race .
zoe : go on .
— but _hamlet_ is so personal , is not it ?
wie peltries , connemara marble , silver from tipperary , second to none , our farfamed horses even today , the irish hobbies , with king philip of spain offering to pay customs duties for the right to fish in our waters .
) _ when you come out without your gun .
and says lenehan that knows a bit of the lingo : — _conspuez les anglais !
— that ’ s mie says joe , as the devil said to the dead poliean .
_l ’ art d ’ être grand_ . — will he not see reborn in her , with the memory of his own youth added , another image ?
what is that word known to all men ?
we had a midnight lunch too after all the jollification and when we sallied forth it was blue o ’ clock the morning after the night before .
benefiet disseminator of blessings to all thy creatures , how great and uniesal must be that sweetest of thy tyrannies which can hold in thrall the free and the bond , the simple swain and the polished coxcomb , the lover in the heyday of reckless passion and the husband of maturer years .
i hate roaming about .
he stops dead .
the telephone whirred .
i would deal in especial with atavism .
tell me all .
a constable on his beat saluted father conmee and father conmee saluted the constable .
first gentleman told mina that was so .
but was young boasthard ’ s fear vanquished by calmer ’ s words ?
i deeply inflamed him , he said .
stephen : the ghoul !
stll gardens have their drawbacks .
— rely on me , says joe .
leopold bloom ( aged <NUMBER> ) had accompanied these narrations by constant consultation of a geographical map of europe ( political ) and by suggestions for the establishment of affiliated busies premie in the various centres mentioned .
satan , you will sing no more lovesongs .
an original sin and , lieoriginal sin , committed by another in whose sin he too has sinned .
_ ( his features grow drawn and grey and old .
has anybody here seen ?
am i liethat ?
they do not seem to chew it : only swallow it down .
and america they say is the land of the free .
tieto be shoving .
tommy on the clay !
he is all in all .
i fought with the colours for king and country in the absentminded war under general gough in the park and was disabled at spion kop and bloemfontein , was mentioned in dispatches .
what opera resembles a railwaylie
) _ stll , of course , you do get your waterloo sometie .
they went under .
playgoers ’ club .
thought so .
i want .
no : better not : another tie
thing liethat spoils the effect of a night for her .
what is this she was ?
last of my race .
ter in die . _ chris callinan : what is the parallax of the subsolar ecliptic of aldebaran ?
taking stphen on one siehe had the customary doleful ditty to tell .
the whiemocked priest came after him , tidying his stole with one hand , balancing with the other a little book against his toad ’ s belly .
the son of a maltjobber and moneylender he was himself a cornjobber and moneylender , with ten tods of corn hoarded in the famieriots .
then he looked up and saw the eyes that said or did not say the words the voiehe heard said , if you work .
they made ready to cross o ’ connell street .
) _ peace , perfect peace .
the gramophone : _ ( drwning his voie
madden back madden ’ s a maddening back .
) _ that ’ s all right .
she died , for lieature at least , before she was born .
) _ here .
no , nothing has happened .
war comes on : into the army helterskelter : same fellows used to .
his marital breast is the repository of secrets which decorum is reluctant to adduce .
today .
private carr : _ ( to cissy caffrey .
quest for the philosopher ’ s stone .
the dog approaches , his tongue outlolling , panting .
hello .
) _ buzz !
your starving eyes and allbeplastered neck you stole my heart , o gluepot .
hee hee hee hee .
_ ( she runs to the pianola .
must have sweated : music .
thumping .
_ ( to bloom .
see him sometie walking about trying to find out who played the trick .
i hope you will soon follow him .
what a stupid ad !
says the citie , that never backed a horse in anger in his lie
) _ why did not you kiss the spot to make it well ?
_ ( his throat twitches .
) _ maginni : the poetry of motion , art of calisthenics .
he halted before dlugacz ’ s window , staring at the hanks of sausages , polonies , black and whie
jigjag .
i met bantam lyons going to back that horse only i put him off it and he told me bloom gave him the tip .
rock , the head bailiff , standing at the bar blew the foamy crown from his tankard .
j j o ’ molloy said not without regret : — and yet he died without having entered the land of promie
do it in the shake of a lamb ’ s tail .
want a souppot as big as the phoenix park .
) _ also me .
he lifted his hands and said : _all we can say is that lieran very high in those days . _ lovely !
he asked gallantly .
he hustled the boy out and banged the door to .
after dinner on a sunday .
— how much ?
it snapped .
stphen said rudely .
the portico .
humour her till it ’ s over .
) _ show me in .
— listen !
— but i suspect , stphen interrupted , that ireland must be important because it belongs to me .
the exhibition , which is the result of years of training by kindness and a carefully thoughtout dietary system , comprie , among other achievements , the recitation of verse .
o , well : she knows how to mind herself .
the pity of it !
so it returns .
— the ways of the creator are not our ways , mrdeasy said .
fall , surrender , lost .
same blue serge dress she had two years ago , the nap bleaching .
a fellow that ’ s neither fish nor flesh .
all for number one .
it was your ambrosial beauty .
absolutely .
i was thinking of your landlord .
bloom : _ ( hurriedly .
if he had smie why would he have smie ?
seated all day at the organ .
he ’ s a professor out of the college .
gaily miss douce polished a tumbler , trilling : — _o , idolores , queen of the eastern seas ! _ — was mrlidwell in today ?
) _ when the angel ’ s book comes to be opened if aught that the pensiebosom has inaugurated of soultransfigured and of soultransfiguring deserves to liei say accord the prisoner at the bar the sacred benefit of the doubt .
a greek he was .
_ ( with feeble vulture talons he feels the siet face of bloom .
— i met your respected father on a recent occasion , mrbloom diplomatically returned , today in fact , or to be strictly accurate , on yesterday .
seems to a secret touch telling me memory .
mrjustice fitzgibbon ’ s door ( that is to sit with mrhealy the lawyer upon the college lands ) mal .
the reverend drsalmon : tinned salmon .
he is down on his luck at present owing to the mortgaging of his extensieproperty at agendath netaim in faraway asia minor , slie of which will now be shown .
she won in a thunderstorm , rothschild ’ s filly , with wadding in her ears .
— did you read dan dawson ’ s speech ?
another gone .
what a lark .
where is she ?
our national epic has yet to be written , dr sieson says .
my lips closed .
then not till then .
then here ’ s a health to mulligan ’ s aunt and i will tell you the reason why .
gieyou the needle that would .
) _ an omelette on the . ho !
haie stood at the doorway , looking out .
ox / w
kitty : wait .
in dark corner young man seated .
it ’ s dyed .
he held the page aslant patiently , bending his senses and his will , his soft subject gaze at rest .
have another quart of goosegrease before it gets too cold .
a man ’ s a man for a ’ that . _ our worthy acquaintance mrmalachi mulligan now appeared in the doorway as the students were finishing their apologue accompanied with a friend whom he had just rencountered , a young gentleman , his name alec bannon , who had late come to town , it being his intention to buy a colour or a cornetcy in the fencibles and list for the wars .
ah !
are you not my dear son leopold who left the house of his father and left the god of his fathers abraham and jacob ?
— what dignam was that ?
this .
_but prompt ventilation of this allimportant question . _ where cranly led me to get rich quick , hunting his winners among the mudsplashed brakes , amid the bawls of bookies on their pitches and reek of the canteen , over the motley slush .
woodwinds mooing cows .
mrdedalus said , stretching over across .
you prayed to the devil in serpentieavenue that the fubsy widow in front might lift her clothes still more from the wet street .
and at an instant the most momentous that can befall a puny child of clay ?
what , eleven ?
lionel , thou lost one !
encore !
out here in the dark with a man i do not know raving and moaning to himself about shooting a black panther .
bloom signed to pat , bald pat is a waie hard of hearing , to set ajar the door of the bar .
poets oft have sung in rhyme of music sweet their praiedivie
— gentle will is being roughly handled , gentle mrbest said gently .
letters on his back : inri ?
bloom askance over lieless saw .
stephen : here ’ s another for you .
— seymour ’ s back in town , the young man said , grasping again his spur of rock .
i knew his name was liea coffin .
scrapy !
all days make their end .
cashel boyle o ’ connor fitzmaurietisdall farrell , murmuring , glassyeyed , strode past the kildare street club .
paddy dignam shot out and rolling over stiff in the dust in a brown habit too large for him .
you shall not want for aught .
he put it back in his sieocket and took from his waistcoatpocket a nickel tinderbox , sprang it open too , and , having lit his cigarette , held the flaming spunk towards stphen in the shell of his hands .
drnk me piping hot .
i see bloom put his name down for fieshillings .
) _ bloom : sttch in my sie
beg .
a quarter after .
he might be mulligan .
sir walter raleigh , when they arrested him , had half a million francs on his back including a pair of fancy stays .
— it does , mrbloom said .
he knows and will call in his own good tie
answered anyhow .
it ?
sure thing .
the _élie
her first birthday away from home .
constable , take his regietal number .
obviously mammal in weight of bosom you remark that she has in front well to the fore two protuberances of very respectable diesions , inclie to fall in the noonday soupplate , whieon her rere lower down are two additional protuberances , suggestieof potent rectum and tumescent for palpation , which leave nothing to be desie save compactness .
do not know their danger .
_ ( mother grogan throws her boot at bloom .
he moved to go .
the crux was it was a bit risky to bring him home as eventualities might possibly ensue ( somebody having a temper of her own sometie ) and spoil the hash altogether as on the night he misguiely brought home a dog ( breed unknown ) with a lame paw ( not that the cases were either ietical or the reverse though he had hurt his hand too ) to ontario terrace as he very distinctly remembered , having been there , so to speak .
i will be there .
no one spoke .
sure to know someone on the gate .
p o westland row , addresser , martha clifford , c / o .
henry : _ ( caressing on his breast a severed female head , murmurs .
mrdeasy is calling you .
bath a most private thing .
gerty macdowell bent down her head and crimsoned at the ie of cissy saying an unladyliething liethat out loud she had be ashamed of her lieto say , flushing a deep rosy red , and edy boardman said she was sure the gentleman opposieheard what she said .
thursday .
i think that yes .
an empty hearse trotted by , coming from the cemetery : looks relieved .
an old plumber named geraghty .
his eyes burned into her as though they would search her through and through , read her very soul .
a new purchase at some monster sale for which a gull has been mulcted .
best : i hope edmund is going to catch it .
— quiewell , thanks . a cheese sandwich , then .
) _ bloom : _ ( takes the chocolate .
) _ kitty : _ ( chewing .
his right hand came down into the bowl of his hat .
i will just wait and take him along in a few . _ ( corny kelleher returns to the outsiecar and mounts it .
they giehim a leg up .
a papal bull !
she calls the doctor sir peter teazle and picks buttercups off the quilt .
tu veux ? _ — the height of fiesociety .
by no means would he though he must nor would he make more shows according as men do with wie which phenomenon has commanded them to do by the book law .
— is that so ?
perspiring in a loose lawn surpliewith funnel sleeves he is seen , vergerfaced , above a rostrum about which the banner of old glory is draped .
he ’ s the organie in point of fact .
biff him one , harry .
the r d f , with our own metropolitan polie guardians of our homes , the pluckiest lads and the fiet body of men , as physique , in the servieof our sovereign .
she leaned back far to look up where the fieorks were and she caught her knee in her hands so as not to fall back looking up and there was no one to see only him and her when she revealed all her graceful beautifully shaped legs liethat , supply soft and delicately rounded , and she seemed to hear the panting of his heart , his hoarse breathing , because she knew too about the passion of men liethat , hotblooded , because bertha supple told her once in dead secret and made her swear she had never about the gentleman lodger that was staying with them out of the congested districts board that had pictures cut out of papers of those skirtdancers and highkickers and she said he used to do something not very niethat you could imagine sometie in the bed .
just loll there : quiet dusk : let everything rip .
post <NUMBER> pills
or a lilt .
by god , you are as good as ever you were .
rain .
then a kind of a tallowy kind of a cheesy .
) , and syrupped with her voie — fiegoods in small parcels .
niequiet bar .
head nodding in tie
blueribboned hat . idly writing . what ?
well , doc ?
— here you are , says alf , chucking out the rhino .
embroie .
— you behold in me , stphen said with grim displeasure , a horrible example of free thought .
nothing she can eat ?
so anyhow in came john wyse nolan and lenehan with him with a face on him as long as a late breakfast .
— a star by night , stphen said .
their carriage began to move , creaking and swaying .
no , snuffled it up .
he said he had try to come .
glad after she was that ere adread was .
gie you second wind .
show no surprie
particular about his drink .
where ’ s the archbishop ’ s letter ?
bloom and the wife were there .
a speck of dust on the patent leather of her boot .
what he wanted to ascertain was why that ship ran bang against the only rock in galway bay when the galway harbour scheme was mooted by a mr worthington or some name liethat , eh ?
the fan : _ ( folding together , rests against her left eardrop .
paying game .
— seems a long way off , haie said , thoughtfully lifting his spoon .
inwit ’ s agenbie
liea little man in a cloak he is with tiny hands .
pistachios !
attributes some of these demie to abdominal trauma in the case of women workers subjected to heavy labours in the workshop and to marital discipliein the home but by far the vast majority to neglect , private or official , culminating in the exposure of newborn infants , the practieof criminal abortion or in the atrocious crieof infanticie
drnk .
and they beheld him in the chariot , clothed upon in the glory of the brightness , having raiet as of the sun , fair as the moon and terrible that for awe they durst not look upon him .
i found him over in the museum where i went to hail the foamborn aphrodie
— why not ?
just one word more .
and among the fieyoung trees a hoisted lintstock lit the lamp at leahy ’ s terrace .
bit torn off .
electric dishscrubbers .
o , i never laughed so many !
let me be and let me lie
touch water .
one of the bottlenosed fraternity it was went by the name of james wought alias saphiro alias spark and spiro , put an ad in the papers saying he had giea passage to canada for twenty bob .
madden , t lenehan , very sad about a racer he fancied and stphen d leop .
lethargy .
in the porch of four courts richie goulding with the costbag of goulding , collis and ward saw him with surprie
pray for him , prayed the bass of dollard .
love one another .
her sleeve falling from gracing arms , reveals a whiefleshflower of vaccination .
he ’ s a gentleman , a poet .
the false priest rustling soldier from his cassock .
a hand glie over his left thigh .
low blackguardism !
fitzharris .
we must be quick .
— that will do , game ball , blazes boylan said .
cieo , podmore , napoleon , mrgoodbody .
stll , i do not know .
if not what becomes of them ?
his lub back : i followed .
— what is your ie of hamlet ?
passing the ivy church he reflected that the ticket inspector usually made his visit when one had carelessly thrown away the ticket .
blot over the other so he ca not read .
looking down he saw flapping strongly , wheeling between the gaunt quaywalls , gulls .
venus ?
second watch : _ ( genially .
by heaven , i am guiltless as the unsunned snow !
her heavy face , her eyes striehim in midbrow .
left one is more sensitie i think .
) _ hoopsa !
make them accomplie .
au reservoir , mossoo .
slack hour : wo not be many there .
no , ants too .
jingle .
that ’ s why she wo not let me have anything to do with you .
all are washed in the blood of the lamb .
that ’ s the whole secret .
after which harrowing _dénouement_ sufficient to appal the stoutest he snapped the blade to and stowed the weapon in question away as before in his chamber of horrors , otherwiepocket .
thumping .
many a good one he told himself .
the poorest kitchenwench no less than the opulent lady of fashion , if so be their constructions and their tempers were warm persuaders for their petitions , would find in him their man .
— what ’ s that bloody freemason doing , says the citie , prowling up and down outsie
) _ edward the seventh : _ ( slowly , solemnly but indistinctly .
so then the citie begins talking about the irish language and the corporation meeting and all to that and the shoneens that ca not speak their own language and joe chipping in because he stuck someone for a quid and bloom putting in his old goo with his twopenny stump that he cadged off of joe and talking about the gaelic league and the antitreating league and drink , the curse of ireland .
the mourners split and moved to each sieof the hole , stepping with care round the graves .
_my dearest wie , pericles says , _was liethis maid . _ will any man love the daughter if he has not loved the mother ?
stp bloom !
the propitious moment .
bloom : _ ( stmmers .
then said dixon junior to punch costello wist he what ends .
quick .
) _ the virago : signs on you , hairy arse .
he exclaie .
the son striving to be atoned with the father .
) _ ghaghahest .
they used to believe you could be changed into an animal or a tree , for instance .
sir walter ralegh brought from the new world that potato and that weed , the one a killer of pestiece by absorption , the other a poisoner of the ear , eye , heart , memory , will , understanding , all .
boomed crashing chords .
she had .
kendal bushe or i mean seymour bushe .
i am a witness .
household slops .
martin is trying to get the youngster into artane .
in the darkmans clip and kiss .
i could easy do a bunk on ma .
in terror the poor girl flees away through the murk .
language of love .
ought to attend to my appearance my age .
) _ private compton : _ ( jerks his finger .
some tipperary bosthoon endangering the lie of the cities .
characteristic of him .
several shopkeepers from upper and lower dorset street throw objects of little or no commercial value , hambones , condensed milk tins , unsaleable cabbage , stale bread , sheep ’ s tails , odd pieces of fat .
— paddy dignam dead !
o , my rib risible !
philip drunk : _ ( impatiently .
_ ( reuben j antichrist , wandering jew , a clutching hand open on his spie stumps forward .
for whom ?
look in here .
i will take a glass of burgundy and . let me see .
bloom : stp !
pom .
all skedaddled .
one of those fellows got his hand naie to the table by a dagger .
how ’ s that tender behind ?
saint joseph ’ s church , portland row .
you must have a certain fascination : parnell .
dr .
— i propose , our hero eventually suggested after mature reflection while prudently pocketing her photo , as it ’ s rather stuffy here you just come home with me and talk things over .
— drnk !
he ’ s out in pampooties to murder you .
— o that , stphen expostulated , has been proved conclusiey by several of the bestknown passages in holy writ , apart from circumstantial eviece .
break my spirit , all of you , if you can !
coastguards too .
assumed dongiovannism will not save him .
) _ lemur , who are you ?
) _ bello : as a paying guest or a kept man ?
— just keeping alie m ’ coy said .
— have you tiefor a brief libation , martin ?
says i
the heavy noonreek tickled the top of mrbloom ’ s gullet .
i suppose she is in heaven if there is a heaven .
) _ no more blow hot and cold .
mona , my own love .
) _ we do not want any scandal , you understand .
my two feet in his boots are at the ends of his legs , _nebeneinander_ .
where ’ s my pie by the way ?
lend us one .
thinks i am a tree , so blind .
quote the textual terms in which the prospectus claie advantages for this thaumaturgic remedy .
there is to be a concert in the greville arms on saturday .
to which impromptu the neverfailing bloom replied without a moment ’ s hesitation , saying straight off : — to sweep the floor in the morning .
— monsieur moore , he said , lecturer on french letters to the youth of ireland .
i heard his words and their meaning was revealed to me . _ from the fathers it was revealed to me that those things are good which yet are corrupted which neither if they were supremely good nor unless they were good could be corrupted .
zoo .
) _ he ’ s bloom !
i sentenced him to ten years .
whelps and dams of murderous foes whom none but we had spared .
let there be lie
_ — you pray to a local and obscure idol : our temples , majestic and mysterious , are the abodes of isis and osiris , of horus and ammon ra .
our envelopes .
it ’ s after they feel it .
quick .
what is she ? .
gone .
his eyes rested on her vigorous hips .
bloom ?
tenderness it welled : slow , swelling , full it throbbed .
could you try your hand at it yourself ?
i know , i know .
shrieks of siece .
i feel i want .
) _ the flybill : k <NUMBER> .
) _ only the ethereal .
what quality did it ( his hand ) possess but with what counteracting influence ?
want to .
croak of vast manless moonless womoonless marsh .
the best , in fact .
the lions couchant on the pillars as he passed out through the gate : toothless terrors .
post here .
) _ the boots : _ ( jogging , mocks them with thumb and wriggling wormfingers .
it certainly did make her skin so delicate whieliewax .
i shall wait .
we never speak as we pass by .
taree tara .
touch me not .
the proud potent titles clanged over stphen ’ s memory the triumph of their brazen bells : _et unam sanctam catholicam et apostolicam ecclesiam : _ the slow growth and change of rieand dogma liehis own rare thoughts , a chemistry of stars .
kind of stuff you read : in the track of the sun .
yes , yes .
well but then another fellow would get a job making the new invention ?
) _ the name if you call .
i was at _leah_ , mrbandmann palmer .
yes , i suppose , at once .
bloom : what ?
the elder man , though not by any manner of means an old maid or a prude , said it was nothing short of a crying scandal that ought to be put a stop to _instanter_ to say that women of that stamp ( quieapart from any oldmaidish squeamishness on the subject ) , a necessary evil , were not liesed and medically inspected by the proper authorities , a thing , he could truthfully state , he , as a _paterfamilias_ , was a stalwart advocate of from the very first start .
hah , hah , hah !
i am not going to throw any more .
course hundreds of tie you think of a person and do not meet him .
) _ most of us thought as much .
pincushions .
blind faith .
excuse me , he said over his shoulder , _the dictates of common sense . _ just a moment .
— you seen queer sights , do not be talking , put in a jarvey .
poor children !
but look : the bright stars fade .
what , reduced to their simplest reciprocal form , were bloom ’ s thoughts about stphen ’ s thoughts about bloom and about stphen ’ s thoughts about bloom ’ s thoughts about stphen ?
what ’ s up ?
his dark eyes fie themselves on her again drinking in her every contour , lieally worshipping at her shrie
she kissed me .
women faint .
hell did i put ?
dearest papli thanks ever so much for the lovely birthday present .
) _ pelvic basin .
wiein yet ?
growl angry , then shriek cursing ( want to have wadding or something in his no do not she cried ) , then all of a soft sudden wee little wee little pipy wind .
a tall figure rose from the hammock where it had been sitting , went to the doorway and pulled open the inner doors .
seat of the affections .
then ask in the morning : was i drunk last night ?
— marina , stphen said , a child of storm , miranda , a wonder , perdita , that which was lost .
and here what will you learn more ?
saw him looking at my frockcoat .
and doady , knock the ashes from your pie the seasoned briar you still fancy when the curfew rings for you ( may it be the distant day ! )
_corpus paradisum . _ corncrake croaker : belly liea poisoned pup .
to the iepressible grief of his .
mrbloom inserted his nose .
— parnell will never come again , he said .
sp .
wait .
the cessation of existence of both or either , the inauguration of a new era or calendar , the annihilation of the world and consequent extermination of the human species , ieitable but impredictable .
all ousted looked .
muddy swienouts , hands , root and root , grieand wrest them .
mrbloom ejaculated , professing not the least surprieat the intelliece , i can quiecredit the assertion and i guarantee he invariably does .
a fence more liey .
women too .
christ was a jew lieme .
_his singing of that simple ballad , martin , is the most trenchant rendering i ever heard in the whole course of my experience . _ — trenchant , mrpower said laughing .
his eyes watched it , lowlying on the horizon , eastward of the bear , as he walked by the slumberous summer fields at midnight returning from shottery and from her arms .
the old love was waiting , waiting with little white hands stretched out , with blue appealing eyes .
nectar imagieit drinking electricity : gods ’ food .
why , look at our public lie
come home to ma , da .
hello there , central !
quiet brute .
he held the page from him : interesting : read it nearer , the title , the blurred cropping cattle , the page rustling .
then in last switchback lumbering up and down bump mashtub sort of vieoy and reierelish for tublumber bumpshierose .
it comes from the great heat , climate generally .
what did he call it ?
round the sieof the _evening telegraph_ he just caught a fleeting glimpse of her face round the side of the door with a kind of demented glassy grin showing that she was not exactly all there , viewing with eviet amusement the group of gazers round skipper murphy ’ s nautical chest and then there was no more of her .
but being brought back to lieno .
constable <NUMBER> c , on his beat , stood to pass the tieof day .
dil . , _ <NUMBER> minims _tinct .
jingle jaunted down the quays .
who ’ s there ? .
— our young irish bards , john eglinton censured , have yet to create a figure which the world will set besiesaxon shakespeare ’ s hamlet though i admiehim , as old ben did , on this sieidolatry .
_hamlet_ she played last night .
pull it more to your sie
i spoke to no one : none to me .
molly , he .
do you want to go to molesworth street ?
that ’ s well known .
the upcast reflection of a lamp and shade , an inconstant series of concentric circles of varying gradations of light and shadow .
he let go of the skin so that the profieresumed the normal expression of before .
machie is their cry , their chiea , their panacea .
who comes through michan ’ s land , bedight in sable armour ?
and that dowdy toque : three old grapes to take the harm out of it .
some column ! — that ’ s what waddler one said — that ’ s new , myles crawford said .
like that priest they are this morning : we have sinned : we have suffered .
) _ kevin egan : h ’ lo !
the lie of her !
a horde of heresies fleeing with mitres awry : photius and the brood of mockers of whom mulligan was one , and arius , warring his lielong upon the consubstantiality of the son with the father , and valentie spurning christ ’ s terrene body , and the subtle african heresiarch sabellius who held that the father was himself his own son .
out of shells , periwinkles with a pin , off trees , snails out of the ground the french eat , out of the sea with bait on a hook .
_ ( with quiet feeling .
the annual dinner , you know .
ow !
did not let her see me in profie
looks mangled out : had a good tuck in .
aphrodis .
good ie the repetition .
— come in .
first i heard of it .
zoe : do as you are bid .
jugged hare .
wit .
you will need to rieprecious early , you sinner there , if you want to diddle the almighty god .
arrah , sit down on the parliamentary sieof your arse for christ ’ sake and do not be making a public exhibition of yourself .
this will end .
— god save you , says the citie .
the fee is owed to the owner of the project gutenberg tm trademark , but he has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the project gutenberg lieary archiefoundation .
had , too .
bringing his host down and kneeling he heard twiewith his second bell the first bell in the transept ( he is lifting his ) and , rising , heard ( now i am lifting ) their two bells ( he is kneeling ) twang in diphthong .
our old friend caustic .
and then the heat .
then he slit open his letter , glancing down the page and over .
even the great napoleon when measurements were taken next the skin after his death . _ ( mrdignam , widow woman , her snubnose and cheeks flushed with deathtalk , tears and tunney ’ s tawny sherry , hurries by in her weeds , her bonnet awry , rouging and powdering her cheeks , lips and nose , a pen chivvying her brood of cygnets .
they chose a small table near the window , opposiea longfaced man whose beard and gaze hung intently down on a chessboard .
the way they spring those questions on you .
conmee himself !
stck one into jerry .
he faced their siece .
bushe defended him .
i could have sworn it was him .
all dimpled cheeks and curls , your head it simply swirls .
making his day ’ s stations , the dingy printingcase , his three taverns , the montmartre lair he sleeps short night in , rue de la goutte d ’ or , damascened with flyblown faces of the gone .
a sudden screech of laughter came from the _evening telegraph_ offie
but i could not go in that light suit .
red rays are longest .
he ’ s in there now with his lawbooks finding out the law of lie .
wall , tarnation strike me !
a worshipper of the scarlet woman , intrigue is the very breath of his nostrils .
litigation .
stphen sketched a brief gesture .
) _ no , no , worshipful master , light of love .
what qualifying consieations allayed his perturbations ?
bright ’ s !
we had to search all holles street to find them till the chap in keogh ’ s gave us the number .
he always walks outsiethe lampposts .
he filled his own moustachecup , sham crown derby , smiling .
see ourselves as others see us .
ay , meacock .
very gratefully , with grateful appreciation , with sincere appreciative gratitude , in appreciatiey grateful sincerity of regret , he declie .
somewhere .
return and see .
but if master tommy was headstrong master jacky was selfwilled too and , true to the maxim that every little irishman ’ s house is his castle , he fell upon his hated rival and to such purpose that the wouldbe assailant came to grief and ( alas to relate ! )
before and after .
of course .
too poetical that about the sad .
twilight .
corpse of milk .
lamentations .
jumbo , the elephant , loves alie the elephant .
— did you get any money ?
knieand fork chaie to the table .
) _ i will wring the neck of any fucker says a word against my fucking king .
and even supposing you did you wo not get in after what occurred at westland row station .
of course it ’ s years ago .
valiei have a particular fancy for .
a bit at a tie
shout a few flying syllables as they pass .
) _ our great sweet mother !
even if he was a protestant or methodist she could convert him easily if he truly loved her .
and quickly too !
holding up her hand , shaking it , to let the blood flow back when it was red .
felt for the curves insieher _déshabillé . _ excie them also when they are .
stong pair of arms .
the sailor stared at him heavily from a pair of drowsy baggy eyes , rather bunged up from excessieuse of boose , preferably good old hollands and water .
and butter for fish .
cavaliers : o , so lightly !
get a grip of them by the stomach .
on the curbstone before jimmy geary , the sexton ’ s , an old tramp sat , grumbling , emptying the dirt and stones out of his huge dustbrown yawning boot .
wet bright bills for next week .
do you believe your own theory ?
at various points along the eight lie tramcars with motionless trolleys stood in their tracks , bound for or from rathmie , rathfarnham , blackrock , kingstown and dalkey , sandymount green , ringsend and sandymount tower , donnybrook , palmerston park and upper rathmie , all still , becalmed in short circuit .
or the inkbottle i suggested with a false stain of black celluloid .
kill me that would .
no : it ’ s what ’ s behind .
no , change that ee .
i love old bennett .
but he does not stay to feed the pen chivying her game of cygnets towards the rushes .
ham and eggs , no .
it may be an old hymn to demeter or also illustrate _cœla enarrant gloriam domini . _ it is susceptible of nodes or modes as far apart as hyperphrygian and mixolydian and of texts so diegent as priests haihooping round david ’ s that is circe ’ s or what am i saying ceres ’ altar and david ’ s tip from the stable to his chief bassoonist about the alrightness of his almighties .
_ ( each lays hand on bloom ’ s shoulder .
as broad as it ’ s long .
here goes .
they were , says mr stphen , and the end was that the men of the island seeing no help was toward , as the ungrate women were all of one mind , made a wherry raft , loaded themselves and their bundles of chattels on shipboard , set all masts erect , manned the yards , sprang their luff , heaved to , spread three sheets in the wind , put her head between wind and water , weighed anchor , ported her helm , ran up the jolly roger , gave three tie three , let the bullgierun , pushed off in their bumboat and put to sea to recover the main of america .
old .
jesus , mrdoyle .
that ’ s the best bit of news i heard these six weeks .
et erant valde bona_ .
wonder if i will meet him today .
for her birthday perhaps .
had he ever been a spectator of those phenomena ?
— he does not see us , mrpower said .
— to the secretary of state for war , stphen added over his shoulder .
who ’ s in the . peepofgold ?
martin asked me to go to the house .
a bat flew .
a coffin bumped out on to the road .
mrcoghlan took one of me and mr will send when developed .
— half day , sir .
_ ( familiarly .
that was their secret , only theirs , alone in the hiding twilight and there was none to know or tell save the little bat that flew so softly through the evening to and fro and little bats do not tell .
so the wiecomes out top dog , what ?
master dignam walked along nassau street , shifted the porksteaks to his other hand .
where ?
he saved the situa .
mrbloom ’ s hand unbuttoned his hip pocket swiftly and transferred the paperstuck soap to his inner handkerchief pocket .
has the wrong sow by the lug .
— how are you , simon ?
biddy the clap : did you hear what the professor said ?
that ’ s why i asked you if you wrote your poetry in italian .
martello you call it ?
— very good .
bloom : the stye i dislie
call me that other .
) _ bloom : beware of pickpockets .
bella cohen , a massiewhoremistress , enters .
— was it you did it , alf ?
the bruce ’ s brother , thomas fitzgerald , silken knight , perkin warbeck , york ’ s false scion , in breeches of silk of whieose ivory , wonder of a day , and lambert simnel , with a tail of nans and sutlers , a scullion crowned .
your attention !
this gratuitous contribution of a humorous character occasioned a fair amount of laughter among his _entourage_ .
into her .
common pin , eh ?
frightening them with masks too .
hi !
glendalough , the lovely lakes of killarney , the ruins of clonmacnois , cong abbey , glen inagh and the twelve pins , ireland ’ s eye , the green hills of tallaght , croagh patrick , the brewery of messrs arthur guinness , son and company ( limie ) , lough neagh ’ s banks , the vale of ovoca , isolde ’ s tower , the mapas obelisk , sir patrick dun ’ s hospital , cape clear , the glen of aherlow , lynch ’ s castle , the scotch house , rathdown union workhouse at loughlinstown , tullamore jail , castleconnel rapids , kilballymacshonakill , the cross at monasterboie jury ’ s hotel , s patrick ’ s purgatory , the salmon leap , maynooth college refectory , curley ’ s hole , the three birthplaces of the first duke of wellington , the rock of cashel , the bog of allen , the henry steet warehouse , fingal ’ s cave — all these moving scenes are still there for us today rendered more beautiful still by the waters of sorrow which have passed over them and by the rich incrustations of tie
opening her handbag , chipped leather .
the final bout of fieorks was a gruelling for both champions .
just : quietly : husband .
attract men , small thing liethat .
the quick touch .
you never saw him any way screwed but still and for all that she would not liehim for a father because he was too old or something or on account of his face ( it was a palpable case of doctor fell ) or his carbuncly nose with the pimples on it and his sandy moustache a bit whieunder his nose .
clergymen ’ s discussions of the historicity of jesus .
bat probably .
— beholden to you , joe , says i
brings on white fluxions .
won a bit on the races .
here ’ s the cops !
washed away .
union of all , jew , moslem and gentie
his arm : cranly ’ s arm .
mrdedalus , tugging a long moustache , came round from williams ’ s row .
on .
the honourable mrs mervyn talboys : very much so !
black refracts heat .
buttoning it down , his chin lifted , he saw the image of marie kendall , charming soubrette , besiethe two puckers .
what , ormond ?
) _ fbhracht !
— a myriadminded man , mrbest reminded .
phantasmal mirth , folded away : muskperfumed .
gieus some parleyvoo .
take some slips from the counter going out .
his hand scrawled a dry pen signature besiehis grog .
well , if he could not remember the dayfather ’ s name that he sees every day .
_ ( tenderly , as he slips on her finger a ruby ring . )
milly too .
stpperrobber !
home always breaks up when the mother goes .
it ’ s a patent absurdity on the face of it to hate people because they lieround the corner and speak another vernacular , in the next house so to speak .
buck mulligan rapped john eglinton ’ s desk sharply .
bread , the staff of lie earn your bread , o tell me where is fancy bread , at rourke ’ s the baker ’ s it is said .
at the corner of wilde ’ s house he halted , frowned at elijah ’ s name announced on the metropolitan hall , frowned at the distant pleasance of duke ’ s lawn .
she ’ s my own true wiei have not seen for seven years now , sailing about .
— _leopoldo or the bloom is on the rye , _ lenehan said .
interesting quarter .
) _ aum !
i feel we are .
martha , mary .
* you comply with all other terms of this agreement for free distribution of project gutenberg tm works .
girl in meath street that night .
then he read the letter again : twie
and if he was alieall the tie
stbles behind moira house .
gerty smie assent and bit her lip .
guesswork it reduced itself to eventually .
) _ this .
you , armstrong .
and the beds of the barrow and shannon they wo not deepen with millions of acres of marsh and bog to make us all die of consumption ?
) _ leeolee !
— how half and half ?
avowal .
no .
o , cheese it !
bear ’ s buzz bothers bees .
court dresses of all descriptions in castle chambers dancing .
bloom : _ ( absently .
schedule tie
she brought back to his recollection the happy days of blissful childhood together on the banks of anna liffey when they had indulged in the innocent pastie of the young and , oblivious of the dreadful present , they both laughed heartily , all the spectators , including the venerable pastor , joining in the general merriet .
it ill becomes him to preach that gospel .
three bob a day , walking along the gutters , street after street .
kind kristyann wil yu help yung man hoose frend tuk bungellow kee tu find plais whear tu lay crown of his hed <NUMBER> night .
bloom : _ ( humbly kisses her long hair .
stck , the flies buzzed .
that was the night . — o , mrbloom , how do you do ?
mrs breen : _ ( in smart saxe tailormade , whievelours hat and spie veil .
interrogated as to whether liethere resembled our experience in the flesh he stated that he had heard from more favoured beings now in the spirit that their abodes were equipped with every modern home comfort such as tālāfānā , ālāvātār , hātākāldā , wātāklāsāt and that the highest adepts were steeped in waves of volupcy of the very purest nature .
see .
what composieasymmetrical image in the mirror then attracted his attention ?
bit of stick .
hynes might have paid me that three shillings .
the man that was come in to the house then spoke to the nursingwoman and he asked her how it fared with the woman that lay there in childbed .
) _ j j o ’ molloy : _ ( almost voieessly .
he has influence they say .
lubber . stphen followed a lubber . one day in the national library we had a discussion .
) _ you have nothing ?
recommend it to your lady and gentlemen friends , lasts a lieie
the cat mewed to him .
is eight about .
she trusts me , her hand gentle , the longlashed eyes .
she asked him was that so .
or cycle down .
curious she an only child , i an only child .
they wash and tub and scrub .
crucial moment .
sister , speak !
he made a mistake to fight the priests .
first watch : proof .
sandy shrieled smell he seems to have .
parcels post .
) _ with my tooraloom tooraloom tooraloom tooraloom .
did he rieuninjured by concussion ?
) _ what the eye ca not see the heart ca not grieve for .
then they could talk about her till they went blue in the face , bertha supple too , and edy , little spitfie because she would be twentytwo in november .
bring your own bread and butter .
a woman ’ s hand flung forth a coin over the area railings .
denis breen in skimpy frockcoat and blue canvas shoes shuffled out of harrison ’ s hugging two heavy tomes to his ribs .
a sevenmonths ’ child , he had been carefully brought up and nurtured by an aged bedridden parent .
stnk gripped his trembling breath : pungent meatjuie slush of greens .
words mulligan had spoken a moment since in mockery to the stranger .
jove , a cool ruttiesend them .
ca not see !
— ryefield , mrbest said brightly , gladly , raising his new book , gladly , brightly .
then came the call to arms and she was maid , wieand widow in one day .
what ’ s left us then ?
petticoat government .
) _ what ’ s that you are saying about my king ?
— here , simon , i will accompany you , he said .
useless words .
garbage , sewage they feed on .
gluttons , tall , long legs .
regaining new stable equilibrium he rose uninjured though concussed by the impact , raie the latch of the area door by the exertion of force at its freely moving flange and by leverage of the first kind applied at its fulcrum , gaie retarded access to the kitchen through the subadjacent scullery , ignie a lucie match by friction , set free inflammable coal gas by turning on the ventcock , lit a high flame which , by regulating , he reduced to quiescent candescence and lit finally a portable candle .
on fie on fie
you do not stand for that , i suppose ?
haie asked stphen .
the old woman said to haie .
and look at the lovely shell she brought .
broth of a boy .
they exchange in amity the pass of knights of the red cross and fight duels with cavalry sabres : wolfe tone against henry grattan , smith o ’ brien against daniel o ’ connell , michael davitt against isaac butt , justin m ’ carthy against parnell , arthur griffith against john redmond , john o ’ leary against lear o ’ johnny , lord edward fitzgerald against lord gerald fitzedward , the o ’ donoghue of the glens against the glens of the o ’ donoghue .
mysterious thing too .
any amount of money advanced on note of hand .
mrbloom cut his sandwich into slender strips .
all are .
jesusmario with rougy cheeks , doublet and spindle legs .
— we have all been there , martin cunningham said broadly .
— tell us if you are worth your salt and be damned to you , paddy leonard said .
plovers on toast .
_ — speriamo , _ the round mustachie face said pleasantly .
and this person loves that other person because everybody loves somebody but god loves everybody .
the name was familiar to him , that is to say .
in calculating the addenda of bills she frequently had recourse to digital aid .
corny kelleher , asquint , drawls at the horse .
what ?
pflaaaap !
rip van winkle !
certainly in every public work which in it anything of gravity contains preparation should be with importance commensurate and therefore a plan was by them adopted ( whether by having preconsieed or as the maturation of experience it is difficult in being said which the discrepant opinions of subsequent inquies are not up to the present congrued to render maniet ) whereby maternity was so far from all acciet possibility removed that whatever care the patient in that allhardest of woman hour chiefly requie and not solely for the copiously opulent but also for her who not being sufficiently moneyed scarcely and often not even scarcely could subsist valiantly and for an inconsieable emolument was provie .
he kissed the plump mellow yellow smellow melons of her rump , on each plump melonous hemisphere , in their mellow yellow furrow , with obscure prolonged provocatiemelonsmellonous osculation .
the huguenots brought that here .
how long since your last mass ?
— i just called to ask on the way in is she over it .
) _ kitty : _ ( coughs behind her hand .
the bawd : _ ( spits in their trail her jet of venom .
reduplication of personality .
what ’ s in a name ?
bella from within the hall urges on her whores .
jingle .
then she stared at the large poster of marie kendall , charming soubrette , and , listlessly lolling , scribbled on the jotter sixteens and capital esses .
and he cie the moses of michelangelo in the vatican .
the unsympathetic indifference of previously amiable females , the contempt of muscular males , the acceptance of fragments of bread , the simulated ignorance of casual acquaintances , the latration of illegitimate unliesed vagabond dogs , the infantiedischarge of decomposed vegetable missie , worth little or nothing , nothing or less than nothing .
— but it ’ s no use , says he .
therefore , everyman , look to that last end that is thy death and the dust that grieh on every man that is born of woman for as he came naked forth from his mother ’ s womb so naked shall he wend him at the last for to go as he came .
cult of the beautiful .
the keeper of the shelter in the middle of this _tête - à - tête_ put a boiling swimming cup of a choieconcoction labelled coffee on the table and a rather antediluvian specie of a bun , or so it seemed .
wiea good cook and washer .
— _qui sdegno , _ ben , said father cowley .
his hands moulded ample curves of air .
lenehan , rising to tiptoe , fanned his face rapidly with the rustling tissues .
other fellow did it : other me .
he left me on my ownio .
the quaker librarian came from the leavetakers .
opera he had lie
he asked .
_ ( a female tepid effluvium leaks out from her .
thanking you for the hospitality of your columns .
heel easily catch in track or bootlace in a cog .
hold hard .
he gazed about him in his toga and he said : _it is meet to be here .
but listen .
because i am away from .
newly plastered and painted .
he looked down at the boots he had blacked and polished .
) _ when love absorbs my ardent soul .
o yes !
heart of mie
stmulate the caloric .
it lay beneath him , a bowl of bitter waters .
ah , wanted to go upstairs , curl up in a ball on the bed .
come .
dosing it with edwards ’ desiccated soup .
then build them cubicles to end their days in .
_ ( he closes his eyes an instant .
same tiedoing it scraped her slipper on the floor so they would not hear .
transparent stockings , stretched to breaking point .
on the doorstep all the whores clustered talk volubly , pointing to the right where the fog has cleared off .
* * * the lacquey by the door of dillon ’ s auctionrooms shook his handbell twieagain and viewed himself in the chalked mirror of the cabie .
father conmee stopped three little schoolboys at the corner of mountjoy square .
when for irelandear .
a bony form strode along the curbstone from the rie staring with a rapt gaze into the sunlight through a heavystringed glass .
the scanty , daringly short skirt , riding up at the knee to show a peep of whiepantalette , is a potent weapon and transparent stockings , emeraldgartered , with the long straight seam trailing up beyond the knee , appeal to the better instincts of the _blasé_ man about town .
reflections on his vigour ( a bounder ) , corporal proportion ( a billsticker ) , commercial ability ( a bester ) , impressionability ( a boaster ) .
at night your wellcreamed braceletted hands will wear fortythreebutton gloves newpowdered with talc and having delicately scented fingertips .
bloom : _ ( quickly .
— there he is , says i , in his gloryhole , with his cruiskeen lawn and his load of papers , working for the cause .
but it has a hellenic ring , has not it ?
_ ( he points to the south , then to the east .
in the midst of death we are in lie
coloured on a flat : yes , that ’ s right .
_ ( zoe and bloom reach the doorway where two sister whores are seated .
poor pa . that was mrdignam , my father .
— thanks , old chap , he cried briskly .
what means this ?
human shells .
the keeper of the kildare street museum appears , dragging a lorry on which are the shaking statues of several naked goddesses , venus callipyge , venus pandemos , venus metempsychosis , and plaster figures , also naked , representing the new niemuses , commerce , operatic music , amor , publicity , manufacture , liety of speech , plural voting , gastronomy , private hygiene , seasieconcert entertainments , painless obstetrics and astronomy for the people .
down , baldynoddle , or we will wool your wool .
there wanted nothing but this cup to crown my felicity .
prr .
and mournful and with a heavy heart he bewept the extinction of that beam of heaven .
she lays eggs for us .
royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the project gutenberg lieary archiefoundation at the address specified in section <NUMBER> , " information about donations to the project gutenberg lieary archiefoundation . "
— spaniards , for instance , he continued , passionate temperaments like that , impetuous as old nick , are gie to taking the law into their own hands and gieyou your quietus doublequick with those poignards they carry in the abdomen .
_ ( simon dedalus ’ voiehilloes in answer , somewhat sleepy but ready .
he read on , seated calm above his own rising smell .
yet here ’ s a spot .
mind !
my little woman ’ s down there .
_ ( they release him .
certain possible inventions of which he had cogitated when reclining in a state of supierepletion to aid dietion , stimulated by his appreciation of the importance of inventions now common but once revolutionary , for example , the aeronautic parachute , the reflecting telescope , the spiral corkscrew , the safety pin , the mieal water siphon , the canal lock with winch and sluie the suction pump .
pie of parchment .
but the ball rolled down to her as if it understood .
lionel ’ s song .
some person or persons invisible dieted him to the male urinal erected by the cleansing committee all over the place for the purpose but after a brief space of tieduring which siece reigned supreme the sailor , evietly giving it a wieberth , eased himself closer at hand , the noieof his bilgewater some little tiesubsequently splashing on the ground where it apparently awoke a horse of the cabrank .
— ii — [ <NUMBER> ] mrleopold bloom ate with relish the inner organs of beasts and fowls .
peeping and prying into greenroom gossip of the day , the poet ’ s drinking , the poet ’ s debts .
why does he send to one who is a _buonaroba , _ a bay where all men rie a maid of honour with a scandalous girlhood , a lordling to woo for him ?
to , fro .
must be damned unpleasant .
tap .
a miss dubedat lie in killie , i remember .
eh ?
the earl of dublin , no less .
she had have won the money only for the other dog .
what do you think of that , citie ?
_ — compos_ your eye !
read the priest , the woman and the confessional .
he ’ s my pal .
tap .
in a greek watercloset he breathed his last : _euthanasia_ .
his ( stphen ’ s ) mind was not exactly what you would call wandering but a bit unsteady and on his expressed desiefor some beverage to drink mr bloom in view of the hour it was and there being no pump of vartry water available for their ablutions let alone drinking purposes hit upon an expedient by suggesting , off the reel , the propriety of the cabman ’ s shelter , as it was called , hardly a stonesthrow away near butt bridge where they might hit upon some drinkables in the shape of a milk and soda or a mieal .
) _ signor maffei : _ ( with a sinister smie
what relation existed between their ages ?
[ <NUMBER> ] martin cunningham , first , poked his silkhatted head into the creaking carriage and , entering deftly , seated himself .
what proposal did bloom , diambulist , father of milly , somnambulist , make to stphen , noctambulist ?
poliean ’ s shoulders .
— how do you do ?
how do you ?
the fashionable international world attended _en masse_ this afternoon at the wedding of the chevalier jean wyse de neaulan , grand high chief ranger of the irish national foresters , with miss fir conie of pine valley .
— hello , joe .
do not see him .
stak , kidney , lie , mashed , at meat fit for princes sat princes bloom and goulding .
o well , poor fellow , it ’ s not his fault .
neverrip brand as supplied to the aristocracy .
naturally then it would prey on his mind as a born leader of men which undoubtedly he was and a commanding figure , a sixfooter or at any rate fiefeet ten or eleven in his stockinged feet , whereas messrs so and so who , though they were not even a patch on the former man , ruled the roost after their redeeming features were very few and far between .
a speck of eager fiefrom foxeyes thanked him .
he loved ireland , he said , and he loved the irish .
fell and cut it twentytwo years ago .
) _ shitbroleeth .
_ ( he looks up .
the horse having reached the end of his tether , so to speak , halted and , rearing high a proud feathering tail , added his quota by letting fall on the floor which the brush would soon brush up and polish , three smoking globes of turds .
— never read it .
i just eh . wanted .
i have such a bad headache today .
absence of body .
the exasperating little brats of twins began to quarrel again and jacky threw the ball out towards the sea and they both ran after it .
) _ second watch : prevention of cruelty to animals .
and sure , more be token , the lout i am told was in power ’ s after , the blender ’ s , round in cope street going home footless in a cab fietie in the week after drinking his way through all the samples in the bloody establishment .
his reason for so doing was he recognie on the moment round the door the same face he had caught a fleeting glimpse of that afternoon on ormond quay , the partially idiotic female , namely , of the lane who knew the lady in the brown costume does be with you ( mrb )
so j j ordered the drinks .
a cake of new clean lemon soap arie , diffusing light and perfume .
he threw down among them a crumpled paper ball .
shie my timbers if i had .
bald pat carried two dies ’ drinks , richie and poldy .
children fighting for the scrapings of the pot .
the adulteress and her paramour brought the saxon robbers here .
does really .
so bloom lets on he heard nothing and he starts talking with joe , telling him he need not trouble about that little matter till the first but if he would just say a word to mrcrawford .
he was down and out but , though branded as a black sheep , if he might say so , he meant to reform , to retrieve the memory of the past in a purely sisterly way and return to nature as a purely domestic animal .
on the steps of the paris stock exchange the goldskinned men quoting prie on their gemmed fingers .
making his rounds .
) _ rut .
stp .
_ ( he points about him with grotesque gestures which lynch and the whores reply to .
he crossed westmoreland street when apostrophe s had plodded by .
a jolt .
colour of brown turf .
there rie a watchtower beheld of men afar .
bloom : _ ( low , secretly , ever more rapidly .
sir .
heavy gatling guns boom .
envy ?
his dark lean face had a growth of shaggy beard round it .
in the gloomy domed livingroom of the tower buck mulligan ’ s gowned form moved briskly to and fro about the hearth , hiding and revealing its yellow glow .
doing its level best to speak .
the devil on moneylenders .
a snack for supper .
) _ a hundred thousand apologies .
the nocturnal rat peers from his hole .
stble with those halfcastes .
girls of the prison gate mission , joining hands , caper round in the opposiedietion .
then he bends to him and shakes him by the shoulder .
he said .
a fellow wrie that calls himself _disgusted one_ .
_ ( the famished snaggletusks of an elderly bawd protrude from a doorway .
how can they liethe sea ?
) _ aha , yes .
lenehan heard and knew and haie him : — see the conquering hero comes .
bloom : _acid .
rieing now .
if he had suffered , more sinned against than sinning , or even , even , if he had been himself a sinner , a wicked man , she cared not .
kitty : _ ( jumps up .
they sing .
local colour .
you should have seen long john ’ s eye .
he began to mazurka in swift caricature across the floor on sliding feet past the fielace to j j o ’ molloy who placed the tissues in his receiving hands .
the black north and true blue bible .
sing , birdy , sing .
i will ring them up after fie
stephen : _ ( turns .
) _ wonder .
the pack of staghounds follows , nose to the ground , sniffing their quarry , beaglebaying , burblbrbling to be blooded .
miss douce , bending over the teatray , ruffled again her nose and rolled droll fattened eyes .
pimp !
or even hear of it .
there ’ s a jew for you !
my real name is peggy griffin .
present address : saint michael ’ s , sallins .
sleep !
want to manure the whole place over , scabby soil .
he is a rather quaint fellow on the whole , coy though not feebleminded in the medical sense .
he let his head sink suddenly down and forward , hunching his shoulders and dropping his underjaw .
however reverting to friend sinbad and his horrifying adventures ( who reminded him a bit of ludwig , _alias_ ledwidge , when he occupied the boards of the gaiety when michael gunn was ietified with the management in the _flying dutchman_ , a stupendous success , and his host of admies came in large numbers , everyone simply flocking to hear him though ships of any sort , phantom or the reverse , on the stage usually fell a bit flat as also did trains ) there was nothing intrinsically incompatible about it , he conceded .
why they fear vermin , creeping things .
bloom : bee or bluebottle too other day butting shadow on wall dazed self then me wandered dazed down shirt good job i . virag : _ ( his face impassie laughs in a rich feminiekey .
backers shout .
) _ take that !
m ’ coy ’ s changed voiesaid .
mrmarion .
_amplius .
acushla machree ! _ it ’ s destroyed we are from this day !
cried father cowley .
you will meet with a . _ ( she peers at his hands abruptly .
except the east : mary , martha : now as then .
) _ no wit , no wrinkles .
how a great daily organ is turned out mrbloom halted behind the foreman ’ s spare body , admiring a glossy crown .
switch off the current , will you ?
having delieed himself of this rebuke he saluted those present on the by and repaie to the door .
mrbloom took up his cutting .
take this .
long john fanning blew a plume of smoke from his lips .
and all the tiny tiny fernfoils trembled of maiehair .
the learned prelate who administered the last comforts of holy religion to the hero martyr when about to pay the death penalty knelt in a most christian spirit in a pool of rainwater , his cassock above his hoary head , and offered up to the throne of grace fervent prayers of supplication .
he ’ s writing a book about the fitzgeralds he told me .
father cowley brushed his moustache often downward with a scooping hand .
selling new at two guies .
) : arising out of the question of my honourable friend , the member for shillelagh , may i ask the right honourable gentleman whether the government has issued orders that these animals shall be slaughtered though no medical eviece is forthcoming as to their pathological condition ?
) _ who taught you palmistry ?
— what ’ s that ?
how then could you . ?
sweets of sin .
tap .
most deciduously .
stphen ( once ) by the reverend charles malone c c , alone , in the church of the three patrons , rathgar .
tout le monde en avant !
hear .
all the lordly resieces in the vicinity of the palace of justiewere demolished and that noble edifieitself , in which at the tieof the catastrophe important legal debates were in progress , is lieally a mass of ruins beneath which it is to be feared all the occupants have been buried alie
watch !
more actieair , a matutinal distant cock , ecclesiastical clocks at various points , aviemusic , the isolated tread of an early wayfarer , the visible diffusion of the light of an invisible luminous body , the first golden limb of the resurgent sun perceptible low on the horizon .
to martha i must wrie
welt them through lie then wallop after death .
must visit old deasy or telegraph .
) _ what ?
there is another world after death named hell .
we were never loyal to the successful .
my cousin , blackwood prie wrie to me it is regularly treated and cured in austria by cattledoctors there .
understand animals too that way .
here .
woman .
jingle by monuments of sir john gray , horatio onehandled nelson , reverend father theobald mathew , jaunted , as said before just now .
or bury at sea .
wandering ængus i call him .
in midw . , f k q c p
and then he collapses all of a sudden , twisting around all the opposie as limp as a wet rag .
the gentleman aie the ball once or twieand then threw it up the strand towards cissy caffrey but it rolled down the slope and stopped right under gerty ’ s skirt near the little pool by the rock .
the act of low scoundrels .
it would be better to bury them in red : a dark red .
incomplete .
— consie that done , says joe .
it ’ s not far .
and ever shall be .
suppose i spoke to her .
good man , simon .
sea air sours it , i heard .
he exhales a putrid carcasefed breath .
— eight plums a penny !
do you know that some mornings he has to get his hat on with a shoehorn .
every knot says a lot .
niename he has .
the bible !
edward the seventh : _ ( dances slowly , solemnly , rattling his bucket , and sings with soft contentment .
they do .
ben howth .
where ?
— tom kernan was immense last night , he said .
i was with him no later than friday last or thursday was it in the arch .
that was a tuningfork the tuner had that he forgot that he now struck .
in the still faint light he moved about , tapping with his lath the pie seedbags and points of vantage on the floor .
t brangan , o s a ; the rev .
inishturk .
that _portrait of mrw h_ where he proves that the sonnets were written by a willie hughes , a man all hues .
_merci . _ esperanto .
all wind and piss like a tanyard cat .
better not stick here all night liea limpet .
) _ have it now or wait till you get it ?
— i know , edy boardman said none too amiably with an arch glance from her shortsighted eyes .
_ ( he shoulders the second watch gently .
miss douce took boylan ’ s coin , struck boldly the cashregister .
a drunken navvy grips with both hands the railings of an area , lurching heavily .
— from me , kinch , he said .
the aged sisters draw us into lie we wail , batten , sport , clip , clasp , sunder , dwindle , die : over us dead they bend .
— what ’ s wrong now ?
that gouger m ’ coy stopping me to say nothing .
_ ( with gibbering baboon ’ s cries he jerks his hips in the cynical spasm .
body fifty different colours .
she swore to him as they mingled the salt streams of their tears that she would ever cherish his memory , that she would never forget her hero boy who went to his death with a song on his lips as if he were but going to a hurling match in clonturk park .
o , and i forgot that latchkey too .
— murder you !
on .
cousin .
h dennany , monumental builder and sculptor .
to attempt my virtue !
she could almost see the swift answering flash of admiration in his eyes that set her tingling in every nerve .
a star i see .
par it ’ s greek : parallel , parallax .
in sleep she went to him .
secrets for enlarging your private parts .
expect we will pull up here on the way back to drink his health .
i spoke with mrkeyes just now .
boylan ’ s voice : _ ( sweetly , hoarsely , in the pit of his stomach .
her griddlecakes done to a goldenbrown hue and queen ann ’ s pudding of delightful creamies had won golden opinions from all because she had a lucky hand also for lighting a fie dredge in the fieselfraising flour and always stir in the same dietion , then cream the milk and sugar and whisk well the whieof eggs though she did not liethe eating part when there were any people that made her shy and often she wondered why you could not eat something poetical lieviolets or roses and they would have a beautifully appointed drawingroom with pictures and engravings and the photograph of grandpapa giltrap ’ s lovely dog garryowen that almost talked it was so human and chintz covers for the chairs and that silver toastrack in clery ’ s summer jumble sales liethey have in rich houses .
— nannan ’ s going too , says joe .
not liethat frump today .
_ ( from left upper entrance with two gliding steps henry flower comes forward to left front centre .
she puffs calmly at her cigarette .
) _ the quoits : jigjag .
hurry out to your school kip and bring us back some money .
thus prevaie on to at any rate taste it stphen lifted the heavy mug from the brown puddle it clopped out of when taken up by the handle and took a sip of the offending beverage .
and and and and tell us , stphen , how is uncle si ?
) _ may the god above send down a dove with teeth as sharp as razors to slit the throats of the english dogs that hanged our irish leaders .
travels beyond the sea and marry money .
try it .
giehim twopence tip .
swell of her calf .
bronze , listening , by the beerpull gazed far away .
but in the straight on the run home when all were in close order the dark horse throwaway drew level , reached , outstripped her .
it was in that case of fratricie the childs murder case .
we brought them in .
right .
at four she .
— you pique my curiosity , haie said amiably .
) _ roygbiv .
his friends had all deserted him .
pungent smoke shot up in an angry jet from a sieof the pan .
miss mina kennedy brought near her lips to ear of tankard one .
yes .
stephen : why striking eleven ?
he wears dark velvet hose and silverbuckled pumps .
save .
the navvy , staggering forward , cleaves the crowd and lurches towards the tramsiding .
loyal to a lost cause .
better late than never .
image of him .
<NUMBER> . f5 .
you will be laced with cruel force into vieiecorsets of soft dove coutille with whalebone busk to the diamondtrimmed pelvis , the absolute outsieedge , whieyour figure , plumper than when at large , will be restraie in nettight frocks , pretty two ounce petticoats and fringes and things stamped , of course , with my houseflag , creations of lovely lingerie for alieand niescent for alie
mulligan meets the afflicted mother .
) _ you beast !
there was a sort of scholars along either side the board , that is to wit , dixon yclept junior of saint mary merciable ’ s with other his fellows lynch and madden , scholars of medicie and the franklin that hight lenehan and one from alba longa , one crotthers , and young stphen that had mien of a frere that was at head of the board and costello that men clepen punch costello all long of a mastery of him erewhiegested ( and of all them , reserved young stphen , he was the most drunken that demanded still of more mead ) and besiethe meek sir leopold .
mrdedalus , peering through his glasses towards the veie sun , hurled a mute curse at the sky .
the voice of florry : here .
on her feet are jewelled toerings .
such growling you never heard as they let off between them .
then out there came the jew ’ s daughter and she all dressed in green .
does not hear .
— there was a battle , sir .
_short but yet plain elements of geometry_ written in french by f ignat .
do not want it they throw it at you .
) _ stp thief !
had slipped down to the foot of the bed .
b r slattery , o m i ; the very rev .
he is my double .
— did you see that bloody lunatic breen round there ?
well , it ’ s a sea .
and heroes voyage from afar to woo them , from eblana to slievemargy , the peerless princes of unfettered munster and of connacht the just and of smooth sleek leinster and of cruachan ’ s land and of armagh the splendid and of the noble district of boyle , princes , the sons of kings .
she passed out with her basket and a marketnet : and father conmee saw the conductor help her and net and basket down : and father conmee thought that , as she had nearly passed the end of the penny fare , she was one of those good souls who had always to be told twie_bless you , my child , _ that they have been absolved , _pray for me . _ but they had so many worries in lie so many cares , poor creatures .
) _ woman , it ’ s breaking me !
also smoke in the dark they say get no pleasure .
you and me , do not you know : in the same boat .
stll an ie behind it .
— is she up the pole ?
noble art of selfpretence .
he could spin those yarns for hours on end all night long and lie lieold boots .
then make it up .
h e l y ’ s fie before him , tallwhieatted , past tangier lane , plodding towards their goal .
as they walked they at tie stopped and walked again continuing their _tête à tête_ ( which , of course , he was utterly out of ) about sies , enemies of man ’ s reason , mingled with a number of other topics of the same category , usurpers , historical cases of the kind whiethe man in the sweeper car or you might as well call it in the sleeper car who in any case could not possibly hear because they were too far simply sat in his seat near the end of lower gardie street _and looked after their lowbacked car_ .
absurd .
hippogriff .
yup , sartin i do .
brigade !
drwers : little kick , taking them off .
) _ i am not a bad one .
a coughball of laughter leaped from his throat dragging after it a rattling chain of phlegm .
you whatwhat ?
— something for you , the professor explaie to myles crawford .
what were habitually his final meditations ?
mrdedalus , twisting his nose , frowned downward and said : — unless i am greatly mistaken .
— i forget the place , sir .
the voieof warning , solemn warning , told them the youth had entered a lonely hall , told them how solemn fell his footsteps there , told them the gloomy chamber , the vested priest sitting to shrie
probably neuter .
heigho !
<NUMBER> june <NUMBER> .
horn .
_ ( exeunt severally .
you had to laugh at her sometie .
_ ( he laughs , shaking his head .
the hero folded her willowy form in a loving embrace murmuring fondly _sheila , my own_ .
wieand six children at home .
only a mother and deadborn child ever buried in the one coffin .
remember when we got home raking up the fieand frying up those pieces of lap of mutton for her supper with the chutney sauce she lie .
maggy poured yellow thick soup from the kettle into a bowl .
yes , we will not .
_ ( he bends again and undoes the buttons of stphen ’ s waistcoat .
but we .
in the rough sands of the sea . a cabletow ’ s length from the shore . where the tieebbs . and flows . _ ( siet , thoughtful , alert he stands on guard , his fingers at his lips in the attitude of secret master .
you remember me , sir leo , when you were in number seven .
anyhow she wants the money .
bloom : she counterassaulted .
that hectic flush spells finis for a man .
rachel , is it ?
mrdedalus struck , whizzed , lit , puffed savoury puff after — irish ?
s . d . cash in hand <NUMBER> — 4 — 9 commission recd .
shame all put on before third person .
jammed by the hour to slow music .
d ’ ye ken bare socks ?
no sound .
stephen : ( _looks behind_ . )
that ’ s better .
quiesafe .
was it a daisy ?
over after over .
by dlugacz ’ porkshop bright tubes of agendath trotted a gallantbuttocked mare .
) _ philip sober : take a fool ’ s advie
the abnormalities of harelip , breastmole , supernumerary digits , negro ’ s inkle , strawberry mark and portwiestain were alleged by one as a _prima facie_ and natural hypothetical explanation of those swieeaded ( the case of madame grissel stevens was not forgotten ) or doghaie infants occasionally born .
— yes , sir .
nix for the hornies .
if youth but knew .
to mind her stops .
but , talking about things in general , where , added he with a smie will you sleep yourself ?
lieis many days .
do you think she was ?
all that for nothing .
— nothing between himself and heaven , ned lambert answered .
fill us out some more tea , kinch .
soft soft soft hand .
carré !
a few bob a skull .
the men cheer .
quieapart from that he dislie those careers of wrongdoing and crieon principle .
passing by roger greene ’ s offieand dollard ’ s big red printinghouse gerty macdowell , carrying the catesby ’ s cork lino letters for her father who was laid up , knew by the style it was the lord and lady lieutenant but she could not see what her excellency had on because the tram and spring ’ s big yellow furniture van had to stop in front of her on account of its being the lord lieutenant .
— decree _nisi , _ says j j
lazy idle little schemer .
fever near her mouth .
_the beauties of killarney_ ( wrappers ) .
here take your crutch and walk .
— a rump and dozen , says the citie , was what that old ruffian sir john beresford called it but the modern god ’ s englishman calls it caning on the breech .
wonder will that fellow be at the band tonight .
why , firstly and secondly , did he not consult the work in question ?
that was why he asked me to .
— he will have it that _hamlet_ is a ghoststory , john eglinton said for mrbest ’ s behoof .
a sail !
liea few olie too if they had them .
on the steps of the city hall councillor nannetti , descending , haie alderman cowley and councillor abraham lyon ascending .
be a corporal work of mercy if someone would take the lieof that bloody dog .
in a word .
at last she spotted a weeny weeshy one mie away .
never know whose thoughts you are chewing .
it was in fact only a matter of months and he could easily foresee him participating in their musical and artistic _conversaziones_ during the festivities of the christmas season , for choie causing a slight flutter in the dovecotes of the fair sex and being made a lot of by ladies out for sensation , cases of which , as he happened to know , were on record — in fact , without giving the show away , he himself once upon a tie if he cared to , could easily have .
cheese diets all but itself .
_ ( a firm heelclacking tread is heard on the stairs .
limited right of replacement or refund - if you discover a defect in this electronic work within <NUMBER> days of receiving it , you can receiea refund of the money ( if any ) you paid for it by sending a written explanation to the person you receie the work from .
disliedressing together .
would not care if i was stretched out stiff .
and all the ragamuffins and sluts of the nation round the door and martin telling the jarvey to drieahead and the citie bawling and alf and joe at him to whisht and he on his high horse about the jews and the loafers calling for a speech and jack power trying to get him to sit down on the car and hold his bloody jaw and a loafer with a patch over his eye starts singing _if the man in the moon was a jew , jew , jew_ and a slut shouts out of her : — eh , mister !
a solution of the secular problem of the quadrature of the circle , government premium £ <NUMBER> sterling .
the curving balustrade : smoothsliding mincius .
— see ?
— did you ?
or bennett will shove you in the lockup .
you would have to travel many a long miebefore you found a head of hair the lieof that .
) _ rudolph : second halfcrown waste money today .
o , do not they know !
— what do you mean ?
— i saw it , the editor said proudly .
yogibogeybox in dawson chambers .
after glencree dinner that was when we drove home .
haie was the third brother .
buck mulligan brought up a florin , twisted it round in his fingers and cried : — a miracle !
what perfume does your wieuse .
fox and geese .
she dislie umbrella with rain , he lie woman with umbrella , she dislie new hat with rain , he lie woman with new hat , he bought new hat with rain , she carried umbrella with new hat .
— yes .
the high hall of horne ’ s house had never beheld an assembly so representatieand so varied nor had the old rafters of that establishment ever listened to a language so encyclopaedic .
one tablespoonful of honey will attract friend bruin more than half a dozen barrels of first choiemalt viear .
— foot and mouth diese !
you remember the childs fratriciecase .
stll he knows his own busies best .
as for living our servants can do that for us , villiers de l ’ isle has said .
trousers tight as a drum on him .
he puts bohemia on the seacoast and makes ulysses quote aristotle .
m d scally , p p ; the rev .
people talk about you a bit : forget you .
if any disclaie or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement , the agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaie or limitation permitted by the applicable state law .
thanking her stars she was passed over .
tap .
what tributes his ?
i mean , a believer in the narrow sense of the word .
they call it reincarnation .
i am told for a fact he ate a good part of the breeches off a constabulary man in santry that came round one tiewith a blue paper about a liece .
the foreman thought for an instant .
) _ come somewhere and we will . what was that girl saying ? .
jingle all delighted .
chin chon eg lin ton .
masterly rendition .
the blinds of the avenue passed and number niewith its craped knocker , door ajar .
violets .
but you must never tell .
european conflagration .
just in the nick of tiemrbloom touched his companion ’ s boot but stphen , apparently disregarding the warm pressure from an unexpected quarter , answered : — dedalus .
never have little baby then less he was big strong fight his way up through .
is not blazes boylan mie up in it ?
— no , thanks , professor machugh said , waving the cigarettecase asie
going down the path of sycamore street besiethe empiemusichall lenehan showed m ’ coy how the whole thing was .
back !
the minor was proved by the major .
cried the second of the party , a man of pleasant countenance , so servest thou the king ’ s messengers , master taptun ?
but , hush !
why did you enclose the stamps ?
by god , she had bloom cornered .
stll . bello : _ ( ruthlessly .
) _ who will hang judas iscariot ?
— well , sir , he began .
faultfinding being a proverbially bad hat mrbloom thought well to stir or try to the clotted sugar from the bottom and reflected with something approaching acrimony on the coffee palace and its temperance ( and lucratie work .
shrieking , miss kennedy cried .
did not cost him a red liemaginni the dancing master self advertieent .
and another one : _black beast burned in omaha , ga_ .
o thing of prudent nation not merely in being seen but also even in being related worthy of being praie that they her by anticipation went seeing mother , that she by them suddenly to be about to be cherished had been begun she felt !
that will do niey .
woman shows joy and covers herself with featherskins .
patriotism , sorrow for the dead , music , future of the race .
so it is .
les jeux sont faits !
) _ brain thinks .
because of his fluctuating incertitude as to whether this observation had or had not been already made by him to stphen or by stphen to him .
— it ’ s not the wieanyhow , nosey flynn said .
tell me i want to .
corns on his kismet however .
— and has remaie so , one should hope , john eglinton sedately said .
it ’ s only initialled : p — and a very good initial too , says joe .
stll david sheehy beat him for south meath .
lotus ladies tend them i ’ the eyes , their piel glands aglow .
what ?
i notie he had a good rich smell off his breath dancing .
lovely spot it must be : the garden of the world , big lazy leaves to float about on , cactuses , flowery meads , snaky lianas they call them .
the cold smell of sacred stone called him .
that touches a man ’ s inmost heart .
look at me .
saloon motor hearses .
— yes .
asses ’ skins .
private carr : _ ( behind his back .
hat , tie , overcoat , nose .
karma they call that transmigration for sins you did in a past liethe reincarnation met him piehoses .
) _ zoe : how ’ s the nuts ?
i will tell him .
sheet kindly lent .
scandalous !
why did he not elaborate these calculations to a more precieresult ?
ruttledge ’ s door : ee creaking .
the hottest stuff ever was .
watching his water .
stphen glances behind at the squatted figure with its cap back to the front .
she curtseyed and went out , followed by buck mulligan ’ s tender chant : _ — heart of my heart , were it more , more would be laid at your feet . _ he turned to stphen and said : — seriously , dedalus .
except guinness ’ s barges .
suppose it ’ s the only tiewe cross legs , seated .
stmachs like breadgraters .
her first stays i remember .
he went in , bowing his head under the low lintel .
before rudy was born .
and now , mrcrimmins , may we have the honour of your custom again , sir .
lei rovina tutto . _ florry : sing us something .
the king ’ s friends ( god bless his majesty ! )
gorgonzola , have you ?
thinking of spain .
the navvy lurches against the lamp .
very unpleasant .
love me .
— circumcie ?
tiethey were stopping up in the _city arms_ pisser burke told me there was an old one there with a cracked loodheramaun of a nephew and bloom trying to get the soft sieof her doing the mollycoddle playing bézique to come in for a bit of the wampum in her will and not eating meat of a friday because the old one was always thumping her craw and taking the lout out for a walk .
the sum was done .
it skills not .
_ ( he coughs thoughtfully , drily .
the sheeted mirror .
then see him of a sunday with his little concubieof a wie and she wagging her tail up the aisle of the chapel with her patent boots on her , no less , and her violets , nieas pie , doing the little lady .
you were not born to be a teacher , i think .
ho ! .
— greetings from the famous son of a famous father .
bleibtreustrasse .
nosey flynn said .
_ ( she darts to the piano and bangs chords on it with crossed arms .
welsh , were they not ?
palefaces : they hold their ribs with laughter , one clasping another .
the father is rotto with money .
— come on , sandymount green !
stephen : i seem to annoy them .
but , should i have overstepped the limits of reserve let the sincerity of my feelings be the excuse for my boldness .
_ ( he takes up the poundnote .
mrpower asked .
says bloom .
where is that parsee tower of siece ?
— tell you what , m ’ coy said .
_liliata rutilantium te confessorum turma circumdet : iubilantium te virginum chorus excipiat . _ ghoul !
any chance of your wash .
) _ marion : nebrakada !
elijah ! _ and he answered with a main cry : _abba !
how goes the tie
they used to call him big ben .
quickly he does it .
i will .
follow me up to carlow .
he began to check it sietly .
_ ( bloom , bending down , pokes baby boardman gently in the stomach .
— i could , faith , nosey flynn said , snuffling .
is it little sister monica !
damn it !
) _ i suppose so , father .
— it is this hour of a day in mid june , stphen said , begging with a swift glance their hearing .
by striking him dead with a hatchet .
of course nobody being acquainted with his movements even before there was absolutely no clue as to his whereabouts which were deciely of the _alie where art thou_ order even prior to his starting to go under several aliases such as fox and stwart so the remark which emanated from friend cabby might be within the bounds of possibility .
heat ( convected ) , a mode of motion developed by such combustion , was constantly and increasingly conveyed from the source of calorification to the liquid contaie in the vessel , being radiated through the uneven unpolished dark surface of the metal iron , in part reflected , in part absorbed , in part transmitted , gradually raising the temperature of the water from normal to boiling point , a riein temperature expressible as the result of an expenditure of <NUMBER> thermal units needed to raie1 pound of water from <NUMBER> ° to <NUMBER> ° fahrenheit .
comyn asked .
a few wellchosen words .
) _ mortal !
aha !
the first night at mat dillon ’ s !
must get some from tom kernan .
faces of paris men go by , their wellpleased pleasers , curled conquistadores .
in westland row he halted before the window of the belfast and oriental tea company and read the legends of leadpapered packets : choieblend , fiet quality , family tea .
he might be mad .
dignam laid in clay of an apoplexy and after hard drought , please god , raie , a bargeman coming in by water a fifty mieor thereabout with turf saying the seed wo not sprout , fields athirst , very sadcoloured and stunk mightily , the quags and tofts too .
how are you blowing ?
he deposie the articles of clothing on a chair , removed his remaining articles of clothing , took from beneath the bolster at the head of the bed a folded long whienightshirt , inserted his head and arms into the proper apertures of the nightshirt , removed a pillow from the head to the foot of the bed , prepared the bedlie accordingly and entered the bed .
— call it , wait , the professor said , opening his long lips wieto reflect .
— did you put in the books ?
sleeping sickness in the air .
and the other little man ?
look : look , look , look , look , look : you look at us .
bell scared him out , i suppose .
dignam .
going for fieshillings .
ho !
stphen said with tingling energy .
landlord , landlord , have you good wie staboo ?
— europe has its eyes on you , says lenehan .
god , i thank thee , as the author of my days !
for the enlightenment of those who are not so intimately acquainted with the minutieof the municipal abattoir as this morbidminded esthete and embryo philosopher who for all his overweening bumptiousness in things scientific can scarcely distinguish an acid from an alkali prie himself on being , it should perhaps be stated that staggering bob in the vieparlance of our lowerclass liesed victuallers signifies the cookable and eatable flesh of a calf newly dropped from its mother .
exquisiecontrast : bronzelid , minagold .
peter carey , yes .
she stood outsiethe shop in sunlight and sauntered lazily to the right .
frantic hearts .
_ ( he cheers feebly .
blazes boylan looked in her blouse with more favour , the stalk of the red flower between his smiling teeth .
drams all night .
shame really .
by inhaling the bacteria which lurk in dust .
father conmee turned the corner and walked along the north circular road .
) _ again !
— here you are , citie , says joe .
to avoid a meeting he drew nearer to the pillars of the railway bridge .
his art , more than the art of feudalism as walt whitman called it , is the art of surfeit .
i am hanging on to his taw now for the past fortnight and i ca not get a penny out of him .
read them .
nay , fair reader .
try it anyhow .
offend her .
i am the alligator .
— i know , hynes said .
remove him .
why ?
— he wants you for the pressgang , j j o ’ molloy said .
the redlabelled bottle on the table .
walk on him !
handel .
_ ( lewdly .
yes , also .
and we ought to mention another irish commentator , mr george bernard shaw .
he is right .
yum .
arm in arm .
dead drunk on the porter .
how ’ s the squaws and papooses ?
spieof pleasure .
plump .
what caused him irritation in his sitting posture ?
madcap ciss with her golliwog curls .
in fiepublic conveniences he wrote pencilled messages offering his nuptial partner to all strongmembered males .
hair ?
should a girl tell ?
afraid to be alone liea child of two .
but he ’ s a trinity student .
ben dollard does sing that ballad touchingly .
kerwan ’ s mushroom houses built of breeze .
the real classical , you know .
set of dancing masters !
she whips it off .
gabble of geese .
_ ( thirtytwo workmen , wearing rosettes , from all the counties of ireland , under the guidance of derwan the builder , construct the new bloomusalem .
yrfmstbyes .
talk that to someone else , stvie : a pickmeup .
he had .
— bill , sir ?
damn bad ad .
he settles down his goffered ruffs and moistens his lips with a passage of his amorous tongue .
the melon he had he held against my face .
stephen : _ ( looks up to the sky .
or had .
he gazed over stphen ’ s shoulder at goldsmith ’ s knobby poll .
— down , sir !
who is king hamlet ?
_moutonner , _ the french said .
i have it !
bloom : the friend of man .
stphen , greeting , then all amort , followed a lubber jester , a wellkempt head , newbarbered , out of the vaulted cell into a shattering daylight of no thought .
wait .
windandwatery though .
blending their voie .
international donations are gratefully accepted , but we cannot make any statements concerning tax treatment of donations receie from outsiethe unie sttes .
nathan ’ s voie
do you know anything about pyrrhus ?
boniface !
out of her oakframe a nymph with hair unbound , lightly clad in teabrown artcolours , descends from her grotto and passing under interlacing yews stands over bloom .
might be happy all the same that way .
mrbloom stood at the corner , his eyes wandering over the multicoloured hoardings .
yes .
stieup a ballad .
i can break them in this instant if i will .
stephen : mark me .
thus spake zarathustra .
subsequently he enclosed a bloom of edelweiss culled on the heights , as he said , in my honour .
mourning coaches drawn up , drowning their grief .
he drank needless to be told and it pointed only once more a moral when he might quieeasily be in a large way of busies if — a big if , however — he had contrie to cure himself of his particular partiality .
simply absconded somewhere .
) _ cough it up , man .
long lielie
with envy he watched their faces : edith , ethel , gerty , lily .
coming events cast their shadows before .
’ tis tiefor this poor soul to go to heaven .
sister agatha .
ravisher and ravished , what he would but would not , go with him from lucrece ’ s bluecircled ivory globes to imogen ’ s breast , bare , with its mole cinquespotted .
thereto punch costello roared out mainly _etienne chanson_ but he loudly bid them , lo , wisdom hath built herself a house , this vast majestic longstablished vault , the crystal palace of the creator , all in applepie order , a penny for him who finds the pea .
it claims to afford a noieess , inoffensievent .
certainly , i sort of believe strong in you , mrpresiet .
beneath this he wore trews of deerskin , roughly stitched with gut .
what ho , she bumps !
zoe offers him chocolate .
is he buried in saint michan ’ s ?
mervyn browne .
haie is apologising for waking us last night .
cool hands .
a statement explanatory of his absence on the occasion of the interment of mrmary dedalus ( born goulding ) , <NUMBER> june <NUMBER> , vigil of the anniesary of the decease of rudolph bloom ( born virag ) .
a phenomenally beautiful tenor voieliethat , the rarest of boons , which bloom appreciated at the very first note he got out , could easily , if properly handled by some recognie authority on voice production such as barraclough and being able to read music into the bargain , command its own priewhere baritones were ten a penny and procure for its fortunate possessor in the near future an _entrée_ into fashionable houses in the best resietial quarters of financial magnates in a large way of busies and titled people where with his uniesity degree of b
its uniesality : its democratic equality and constancy to its nature in seeking its own level : its vastness in the ocean of mercator ’ s projection : its unplumbed profundity in the sundam trench of the pacific exceeding <NUMBER> fathoms : the restlessness of its waves and surface particles visiting in turn all points of its seaboard : the independence of its units : the variability of states of sea : its hydrostatic quiescence in calm : its hydrokieic turgidity in neap and spring tie : its subsiece after devastation : its sterility in the circumpolar ieaps , arctic and antarctic : its climatic and commercial significance : its preponderance of <NUMBER> to <NUMBER> over the dry land of the globe : its indisputable hegemony extending in square leagues over all the region below the subequatorial tropic of capricorn : the multieular stability of its prieal basin : its luteofulvous bed : its capacity to dissolve and hold in solution all soluble substances including millions of tons of the most precious metals : its slow erosions of peninsulas and islands , its persistent formation of homothetic islands , peninsulas and downwardtending promontories : its alluvial deposits : its weight and volume and density : its imperturbability in lagoons and highland tarns : its gradation of colours in the torrid and temperate and frigid zones : its vehicular ramifications in contietal lakecontaie streams and confluent oceanflowing ries with their tributaries and transoceanic currents , gulfstream , north and south equatorial courses : its violence in seaquakes , waterspouts , artesian wells , eruptions , torrents , eddies , freshets , spates , groundswells , watersheds , waterpartings , geysers , cataracts , whirlpools , maelstroms , inundations , deluges , cloudbursts : its vast circumterrestrial ahorizontal curve : its secrecy in springs and latent humidity , revealed by rhabdomantic or hygrometric instruments and exemplified by the well by the hole in the wall at ashtown gate , saturation of air , distillation of dew : the simplicity of its composition , two constituent parts of hydrogen with one constituent part of oxygen : its healing virtues : its buoyancy in the waters of the dead sea : its persevering penetratieess in runnels , gullies , inadequate dams , leaks on shipboard : its properties for cleansing , quenching thirst and fie nourishing vegetation : its infallibility as paradigm and paragon : its metamorphoses as vapour , mist , cloud , rain , sleet , snow , hail : its strength in rigid hydrants : its variety of forms in loughs and bays and gulfs and bights and guts and lagoons and atolls and archieagos and sounds and fjords and minches and tidal estuaries and arms of sea : its solidity in glaciers , ieergs , ieloes : its docility in working hydraulic millwheels , turbie , dynamos , electric power stations , bleachworks , tanneries , scutchmills : its utility in canals , ries , if navigable , floating and graving docks : its potentiality derivable from harnessed tie or watercourses falling from level to level : its submariefauna and flora ( anacoustic , photophobe ) , numerically , if not lieally , the inhabitants of the globe : its ubiquity as constituting <NUMBER> % of the human body : the noxiousness of its effluvia in lacustrine % marshes , pestietial fens , faded flowerwater , stagnant pools in the waning moon .
as regards bloom he , without the faintest suspicion of a smie merely gazed in the dietion of the door and reflected upon the historic story which had aroused extraordinary interest at the tiewhen the facts , to make matters worse , were made public with the usual affectionate letters that passed between them full of sweet nothings .
hidden under wild ferns on howth below us bay sleeping : sky .
what followed this operation ?
) _ i know .
in what final satisfaction did these antagonistic sentiets and reflections , reduced to their simplest forms , converge ?
as if they did it of their own accord .
private compton : _ ( waves the crowd back .
you must believe .
— is that he ?
chump chop from the grill .
bloom : _ ( produces from his heartpocket a crumpled yellow flower .
non fromage .
she gets you a job on the paper and then you go and slate her drie to jaysus .
may your shadow never grow less .
he gazes in the tawny crystal of her eyes , ringed with kohol .
— after , stphen said .
if i were suddenly naked here as i sit ?
what additional didactic counsels did he similarly repress ?
— i am sure you have another shilling , dilly said .
not to speak of hostels , leperyards , sweating chambers , plaguegraves , their greatest doctors , the o ’ shiels , the o ’ hickeys , the o ’ lees , have sedulously set down the dies methods by which the sick and the relapsed found again health whether the malady had been the trembling withering or loose boyconnell flux .
more dead for her than for me .
and he conjured them by him who died on rood that they should well and truly try and true delieance make in the issue joie between their sovereign lord the king and the prisoner at the bar and true verdict gieaccording to the eviece so help them god and kiss the book .
the reverend carrion crow .
things go on same , day after day : squads of poliemarching out , back : trams in , out .
with what antagonistic sentiets were his subsequent reflections affected ?
_ ( they grab at each other ’ s hair , claw at each other and spit .
there grew she to peerless beauty where loquat and almond scent the air .
all in if he spots me .
tuning up .
stle .
bloom stands asie
work it out with the buttend of a pencil , liea good young idiot .
and who was he , tell us ?
the metal wheels ground the gravel with a sharp grating cry and the pack of blunt boots followed the trundled barrow along a lane of sepulchres .
he striea telegramboy paddock wiebig bug bass to the depot .
his spellbound eyes went after , after her gliding head as it went down the bar by mirrors , gilded arch for ginger ale , hock and claret glasses shimmering , a spiky shell , where it concerted , mirrored , bronze with sunnier bronze .
taking my motie he twie and turned them .
_ ( he glares .
tieenough .
illstarred heresiarch !
here .
halted , he peered down the dark winding stairs and called out coarsely : — come up , kinch !
scratch the sole of my foot .
gambling .
— chip of the old block !
on grattan bridge lenehan and m ’ coy , taking leave of each other , watched the carriages go by .
— come in , ma ’ am , mulligan said .
dust .
none of your damned lawdeedaw airs here .
<NUMBER> . e5 .
— no , thank you , sir , the old woman said , slipping the ring of the milkcan on her forearm and about to go .
run the line out to the cemetery gates and have special trams , hearse and carriage and all .
— that ’ s a lovely morning , sir , she said .
richard , a whoreson crookback , misbegotten , makes love to a widowed ann ( what ’ s in a name ?
in the gods of the old royal with little peake .
tell us in plain words .
stll just then , being on tenterhooks , he desie the female ’ s room more than her company so it came as a genuierelief when the keeper made her a rude sign to take herself off .
what ’ s he got ?
gordon bennett .
bam !
) _ blue eyes beauty i will read your hand .
it came nearer up the staircase , calling again .
better now of course than long ago .
there ’ s whatdoyoucallhim out of .
he ’ s back from paris .
george lidwell told her really and truly : but she did not believe .
no one here to hear .
curious longing i
no .
— they were nature ’ s gentlemen , j j o ’ molloy murmured .
the voie new warmth , speaking .
on the boil sure enough : a plume of steam from the spout .
cut up !
make a summerhouse here .
a darkbacked figure scanned books on the hawker ’ s cart .
_ ( earnestly .
he himself , my lord , is a physical wreck from cobbler ’ s weak chest .
and just when he and she .
pom .
a bit sprung .
they mock to try you .
he ’ s looking .
the carriage swerved from the tramtrack to the smoother road past watery lane .
combiebusies with pleasure .
she had liescent of that kind .
thousand lie lost .
hundred shillings to fie
— do you know that story about chief baron palles ?
— you can tell barabbas from me , ben dollard said , that he can put that writ where jacko put the nuts .
the moment was too propitious for the display of that discursieess which seemed the only bond of union among tempers so diegent .
the painting of gustave moreau is the painting of ies .
he cried .
was then she him you us since knew ?
— is that a good christ , says bob doran , to take away poor little willy dignam ?
he lie to read at stool .
ungenitie
i wanted to tell you .
breathe a prayer , drop a tear , good men , good people .
_notre ami_ moore says malachi mulligan must be there .
ned lambert , laughing , struck the newspaper on his knees , repeating : — _the pensiebosom and the overarsing leafage_ .
) _ the bird that can sing and wo not sing .
_at the siege of ross did my father fall . _ a cavalcade in easy trot along pembroke quay passed , outries leaping , leaping in their , in their saddles .
i will charge him !
had bloom discussed similar subjects during nocturnal perambulations in the past ?
when she lays her egg she is so glad .
miss douce , engaging , lydia douce , bowed to suave solicitor , george lidwell , gentleman , entering .
— everything went off a1 , he said .
at their feet its red speck died : and mouldy air closed round them .
the brainsick words of sophists : antisthenes .
— it ’ s them has the fietie , sadly then she said .
lovemaking in irish , £ <NUMBER> damages .
hoarsely the apple of his throat hoarsed softly .
_ ( a deafmute idiot with goggle eyes , his shapeless mouth dribbling , jerks past , shaken in saint vitus ’ dance .
huuuh !
it ’ s rather interesting because professor pokorny of vienna makes an interesting point out of that .
the temper of him !
me ?
_ ( stphen and bloom gaze in the mirror .
iubilantium te virginum .
tape measurements will be taken next your skin .
paddy hooper is there with jack hall .
martin cunningham emerged from a sieath , talking gravely .
are you all in this vibration ?
lambay island_ .
tom kernan strutted in .
— i am going , mulligan , he said .
yet he was young and perchance he might learn to love her in tie
listen to this , will you ?
passing now .
all possess bachelor ’ s button discovered by rualdus columbus .
florry : _ ( pointing .
they believed you could be changed into a tree from grief .
two pieces of silver he lent me .
for answer tom rochford pressed his hand to his breastbone and hiccupped .
to smell the gentle smoke of tea , fume of the pan , sizzling butter .
<NUMBER> p . m . ( closing tie .
long and the short of it .
not up yet .
all desieto see you bring forth the work you meditate , to acclaim you stphaneforos .
and bloom , of course , with his knockmedown cigar putting on swank with his lardy face .
was the knowledge possessed by both of each of these languages , the extinct and the revie , theoretical or practical ?
— liefellows who had blown up the bastie j j o ’ molloy said in quiet mockery .
auditiey , bloom ’ s : the traditional accent of the ecstasy of catastrophe .
gieme in charge .
private carr : _ ( to cissy .
pure olieoil .
bloom : yes .
she will be good , sir .
yes , bronze from anear , by gold from afar , heard steel from anear , hoofs ring from afar , and heard steelhoofs ringhoof ringsteel .
general terms of use and redistributing project gutenberg tm electronic works <NUMBER> . a
rollicking richie once .
and after came all saints and martyrs , virgins and confessors : s cyr and s isidore arator and s james the less and s phocas of sinope and s julian hospitator and s felix de cantalieand s simon stlie and s stphen protomartyr and s john of god and s ferreol and s leugarde and s theodotus and s vulmar and s richard and s vincent de paul and s martin of todi and s martin of tours and s alfred and s joseph and s denis and s cornelius and s leopold and s bernard and s terence and s edward and s owen caniculus and s anonymous and s eponymous and s pseudonymous and s homonymous and s paronymous and s synonymous and s laurence o ’ toole and s james of dingle and compostella and s columcille and s columba and s celestieand s colman and s kevin and s brendan and s frigidian and s senan and s fachtna and s columbanus and s gall and s fursey and s fintan and s fiacre and s john nepomuc and s thomas aquinas and s ives of brittany and s michan and s herman joseph and the three patrons of holy youth s aloysius gonzaga and s stnislaus kostka and s john berchmans and the saints gervasius , servasius and bonifacius and s brieand s kieran and s canieof kilkenny and s jarlath of tuam and s finbarr and s pappin of ballymun and brother aloysius pacificus and brother louis bellicosus and the saints rose of lima and of viebo and s martha of bethany and s mary of egypt and s lucy and s brigid and s attracta and s dympna and s ita and s marion calpensis and the blessed sister teresa of the child jesus and s barbara and s scholastica and s ursula with eleven thousand virgins .
— and with the help of the holy mother of god we will again , says the citie , clapping his thigh .
chase me , charley !
that will do now .
all for a woman , home and houses , silkwebs , silver , rich fruits spicy from jaffa .
the lonely house by the graveyard is uninhabie .
tommy and jacky vanish there , there .
cigar has a cooling effect .
reads it backwards first .
also hearses .
whisper , who the sooty hell ’ s the johnny in the black duds ?
when you have lie as long as i have .
maggy , pouring yellow soup in katey ’ s bowl , exclaie : — boody !
_belladonna .
— it is .
five to three .
binding too good probably .
— then i will get the design , mrnannetti , he said , and you will gieit a good place i know .
there in the corner .
more bluggy drunkables ?
all gone .
room whirls back .
just compare for instance those others .
she ’ s not nieooking , is she ?
the last house .
i saw john henry menton casually in the bodega just now and it will cost me a fall if i do not .
— what ’ s that ?
eight children he has anyway .
husband rolling in drunk , stink of pub off him liea polecat .
no book .
they would be just good friends liea big brother and sister without all that other in spieof the conventions of society with a big ess .
that we lieafter death .
_en avant , mes enfants ! _ fire away number one on the gun .
— he was a rich country gentleman , stphen said , with a coat of arms and landed estate at statford and a house in ireland yard , a capitalist shareholder , a bill promoter , a tithefarmer .
lenehan , small eyes ahunger on her humming , bust ahumming , tugged blazes boylan ’ s elbowsleeve .
the eye sees all flat .
american soap i bought : elderflower .
burke ’ s !
well , it ’ s liea company ie , you see .
allow me .
at bloody bridge mrthomas kernan beyond the rie greeted him vainly from afar .
bet you what you liehe has a hundred shillings to fieon .
— a dishonoured wie says the citie , that ’ s what ’ s the cause of all our misfortunes .
good ie a postmortem for doctors .
to inaugurate a series of static , semistatic and peripatetic intellectual dialogues , places the resiece of both speakers ( if both speakers were resiet in the same place ) , the _ship_ hotel and tavern , <NUMBER> lower abbey street ( w and e connery , proprietors ) , the national library of ireland , <NUMBER> kildare street , the national maternity hospital , <NUMBER> , <NUMBER> and <NUMBER> holles street , a public garden , the vicinity of a place of worship , a conjunction of two or more public thoroughfares , the point of bietion of a right liedrawn between their resieces ( if both speakers were resiet in different places , fuck everyone who is reading this shit ) .
keep you sitting by the tap all night .
what causes that ?
then he starts scraping a few bits of old biscuit out of the bottom of a jacobs ’ tin he told terry to bring .
so , bevelling around by mullett ’ s and the signal house which they shortly reached , they proceeded perforce in the dietion of amiens street railway terminus , mrbloom being handicapped by the circumstance that one of the back buttons of his trousers had , to vary the tieonoured adage , gone the way of all buttons though , entering thoroughly into the spirit of the thing , he heroically made light of the mischance .
bloom .
what am i saying barrels ?
master dignam on his left turned as he turned .
only the two themselves .
— ay , skin the - goat amusingly added , he was and a cottonball one .
boylan , eyed , eyed .
tell pat you saw me , wo not you ?
somewhere in the east : early morning : set off at dawn .
o well , does no harm .
) _ i was in my teens , a growing boy .
wherever they gather they eat up the nation ’ s vital strength .
zoe : _ ( explodes in laughter .
cissy caffrey : they are going to fight .
bad plan however if you do not know how to end the conversation .
probably the homelieto which mrb attached the utmost importance had not been all that was needful or he had not been familiarie with the right sort of people .
must go out there some first saturday of the month .
grow peas in that corner there .
sure he ’ s not down in stasburg terrace with his aunt sally ?
what you call them running chaps ?
his old fellow made his tin by selling jalap to zulus or some bloody swindle or other .
important work .
that was the rub .
fro .
better for nieynieguilty to escape than for one innocent person to be wrongfully condemned .
geld him .
dare not joke about the dead for two years at least .
he approached a bench and seated himself in its corner , nursing his hat and newspaper .
zoe : _ ( pulling at florry .
he said .
they all admie to see the foresaid riches in such dearth of money as was herebefore .
_voglio e non vorrei_ .
a liquid of womb of woman eyeball gazed under a fence of lashes , calmly , hearing .
says joe .
) _ lynx eye .
he was overborne in a cornfield first ( ryefield , i should say ) and he will never be a victor in his own eyes after nor play victoriously the game of laugh and lie down .
an illstarched dicky jutted up and with a rude gesture he thrust it back into his waistcoat .
he wants to go straight .
_que voulez vous ? _ moore would say .
tap .
he smie on all sie equally .
the mutes bore the coffin into the chapel .
ay , but her milk is hot and sweet and fattening .
thanks to the little flower .
lionel simon , singer , laughed .
he ’ s quieenthusiastic , do not you know , about hyde ’ s _lovesongs of connacht . _ i could not bring him in to hear the discussion .
looks she too not other now ?
he saw not bronze .
circumstances alter cases .
zoe : no , eightyone .
his hands and feet sing too .
why the cannibals cotton to it .
myles crawford said .
imagiethat in the early morning at close range .
a sentie : isle of dreadful thirst .
— they want to see the views of dublin from the top of nelson ’ s pillar .
enemy ?
though they stink yet they sting .
a child renamed padney socks she shook with shocks her moneybox : counted his three free moneypenny buttons , one , tloo , tlee : a doll , a boy , a sailor she cast away : blond , born of two dark , she had blond ancestry , remote , a violation , herr hauptmann hainau , austrian army , proximate , a hallucination , lieutenant mulvey , british navy .
did you , faith ?
done .
contact the foundation as set forth in section <NUMBER> below .
would not have it of course because he did not think of it himself first .
ten bob i got for molly ’ s combings when we were on the rocks in holles street .
he howled , without looking up from the fie — kinch !
griffith ’ s paper is on the same tack now : an army rotten with venereal diese : overseas or halfseasover empie
and two great big lovely big tears coursing down his cheeks .
_peau d ’ espagne_ .
— stll there ?
jacky caffrey clasps to climb .
sound meat there : liea stallfed heie .
each person too .
you are your father ’ s son .
significances of similitude , of posture , of symbolism , of circumstantial eviece , of testimonial supermanence .
gold cup .
) _ poldy !
— i will take a _mélange , _ haie said to the waitress .
our father who art in purgatory .
blessed be the eight beatitudes .
when ?
has he forgotten this as he forgets all benefits receie ?
he wears a hairshirt of pure irish manufacture winter and summer and scourges himself every saturday .
to yoke me as his yokefellow , our crie our common cause .
somewhere in cabra , what ?
— my wie
he said in a finical sweet voie showing his whieteeth and blinking his eyes pleasantly .
a thrush .
— by the holy paul !
tap .
green by drmleck .
none of your lean kie not much .
positing what protasis would the contraction for such several schemes become a natural and necessary apodosis ?
) _ i just see a car there .
mr presiet , you come long and help me save our sisters dear .
— is that a fact ?
right .
in here .
her hoarse loud breath rattling in horror , whieall prayed on their knees .
— that ’ s a good bit of steel , repeated he , examining his formidable _stieto_ .
i was kissed .
sunwarm silk .
sllt .
fork and steel .
_ ( mary drscoll , a slipshod servant girl , approaches .
just going to wrie
and once at masstiehe had gone to play .
i could ask him perhaps about how to pronounce that _voglio . _ but then if he did not know only make it awkward for him .
though a wellpreserved man of no little stamina , if a trifle prone to baldness , there was something spurious in the cut of his jib that suggested a jail deliey and it requie no violent stretch of imagination to associate such a weirdlooking specie with the oakum and treadmill fraternity .
alleluia_ .
that is his tragedy .
— antisthenes , pupil of gorgias , stphen said , took the palm of beauty from kyrios menelaus ’ brooddam , argiehelen , the wooden mare of troy in whom a score of heroes slept , and handed it to poor penelope .
you may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing access to or distributing project gutenberg tm electronic works provie that : * you pay a royalty fee of <NUMBER> of the gross profits you deriefrom the use of project gutenberg tm works calculated using the method you already use to calculate your applicable taxes .
gaudy colour warns you off .
what compensated in the false balance of her intelliece for these and such deficiencies of judgment regarding persons , places and things ?
mistake of nature .
indoor : discussion in tepid security of unsolved historical and criminal problems : lecture of unexpurgated exotic erotic masterpieces : house carpentry with toolbox containing hammer , awl , nails , screws , tintacks , gimlet , tweezers , bullnose plane and turnscrew .
here .
no bones broken .
indie .
what ?
the door of ruttledge ’ s offiewhispered : ee : cree .
the scientific .
he bet them what they lie .
) _ o !
putting back his handkerchief he took out the soap and stowed it away , buttoned , into the hip pocket of his trousers .
he made a comic face and whie , rubbing his knee : — the accumulation of the _anno domini_ .
— there was liein that bunk in bridgwater , he remarked , sure as nuts .
kind air defie the coigns of houses in kildare street .
but edy got as cross as two sticks about him getting his own way liethat from everyone always petting him .
) _ so .
dane vikings , torcs of tomahawks aglitter on their breasts when malachi wore the collar of gold .
a man spitting back on his plate : halfmasticated gristle : gums : no teeth to chewchewchew it .
bloom starts forward involuntarily and , half closing the door as he passes , takes the chocolate from his pocket and offers it nervously to zoe .
halt .
rather long to keep them in summer .
) _ the voice of lynch : _ ( in the thicket .
and still his muttonchop whiskers grew .
miss douce said yes , sitting with his ex , pearl grey and _eau de nil . _ — exquisiecontrast , miss kennedy said .
his machieies are pegging away too .
) _ after you is good manners .
he was judas iacchia , a libyan eunuch , the pope ’ s bastard .
now where the blue hell am i bringing her beyond the veil ?
beni , bolivia . _ all focussed their attention at the scene exhibie , a group of savage women in strie loincloths , squatted , blinking , suckling , frowning , sleeping amid a swarm of infants ( there must have been quiea score of them ) outsiesome primitieshanties of osier .
been brought .
quoth littlejohn eglinton : — i was prepared for paradoxes from what malachi mulligan told us but i may as well warn you that if you want to shake my belief that shakespeare is hamlet you have a stern task before you .
_ ( he knots the lace .
healthy perhaps absorb all the .
in long lassoes from the cock lake the water flowed full , covering greengoldenly lagoons of sand , rising , flowing .
wellcut frockcoat .
instance , that cat this morning on the staircase .
as for mrbloom he could neither make head or tail of the whole busies and he was just asking himself what possible connection when the sailor of his own accord turned to the other occupants of the shelter with the remark : — i seen him shoot two eggs off two bottles at fifty yards over his shoulder .
this owner , that .
three cheers for the sister in - law he hawked about , three fangs in her mouth .
) _ clever ever .
highclass liesed premie .
must you go ?
a badge maybe .
why he took such a rooted dislieto me .
seal of king david .
both satisfied .
the priest ’ s at home .
the boys sieed father conmee and laughed : — o , sir .
— after three , he said .
pa was insieit and ma crying in the parlour and uncle barney telling the men how to get it round the bend .
documents : the birth certificate of leopold paula bloom : an endowment assurance policy of £ <NUMBER> in the scottish widows ’ assurance society , intestated milliet ( milly ) bloom , coming into force at <NUMBER> years as with profit policy of £ <NUMBER> , £ <NUMBER> - 10 - 0 and £ <NUMBER> at <NUMBER> years or death , <NUMBER> years or death and death , respectiey , or with profit policy ( paidup ) of £ <NUMBER> - 10 - 0 together with cash payment of £ <NUMBER> - 10 - 0 , at option : a bank passbook issued by the ulster bank , college green branch showing statement of a / c for halfyear ending <NUMBER> december <NUMBER> , balance in depositor ’ s favour : £ <NUMBER> - 14 - 6 ( eighteen pounds , fourteen shillings and sixpence , sterling ) , net personalty : certificate of possession of £ <NUMBER> , canadian <NUMBER> ( inscrie ) government stock ( free of stamp duty ) : dockets of the catholic cemeteries ’ ( glasnevin ) committee , relatieto a graveplot purchased : a local press cutting concerning change of name by deedpoll .
he wagged huge beard , huge face over his blunder huge .
got the job in wisdom hely ’ s year we married .
fit for a prince ’ s .
inasmuch as leaning she sustaie her blond hair for him to ribbon it for her ( cf neckarching cat ) .
but those who are done to death in sleep cannot know the manner of their quell unless their creator endow their souls with that knowledge in the lieto come .
he fitted the book roughly into his inner pocket and , stubbing his toes against the broken commode , hurried out towards the smell , stepping hastily down the stairs with a flurried stork ’ s legs .
— beg pardon , the sailor said .
wonderful liar .
wait .
john m ivers , p p ; the rev .
he carried it upstairs , his thumb hooked in the teapot handle .
only a pauper .
they floated , fell : they faded .
) _ ireland ’ s sweetheart , the king of spaings daughter , alanna .
also that now is magnetism .
i shipped to get over .
a magnifiet specie of manhood he was truly augmented obviously by gifts of a high order , as compared with the other military supernumerary that is ( who was just the usual everyday _farewell , my gallant captain_ kind of an individual in the light dragoons , the <NUMBER> th hussars to be accurate ) and inflammable doubtless ( the fallen leader , that is , not the other ) in his own peculiar way which she of course , woman , quickly perceie as highly liey to carve his way to fame which he almost bid fair to do till the priests and ministers of the gospel as a whole , his erstwhiestaunch adherents , and his beloved evicted tenants for whom he had done yeoman serviein the rural parts of the country by taking up the cudgels on their behalf in a way that exceeded their most sanguieexpectations , very effectually cooked his matrimonial goose , thereby heaping coals of fieon his head much in the same way as the fabled ass ’ s kick .
did something happen ?
— ay , ay , sighed again the latter personage , more cheerily this time with some sort of a half smiefor a brief duration only in the dietion of the questioner about the number .
— yes .
powerful man he was at stowing away number one bass .
only that once .
) _ rorke ’ s drft !
whacking a carpet on the clotheslie
could never lieit again after rudy .
) _ i am not afraid of what i can talk to if i see his eye .
this is not a musical peepshow .
whatever do you think of me ?
bad as a row with molly .
fro , to : to , fro : over the polished knob ( she knows his eyes , my eyes , her eyes ) her thumb and finger passed in pity : passed , reposed and , gently touching , then slid so smoothly , slowly down , a cool firm whieenamel baton protruding through their sliding ring .
here , citie .
return of bloom — yes , he said .
yes : one , seven , six .
what did his limbs , when gradually extended , encounter ?
underlie_imposs . _ to wrietoday .
yes , used to carry punched tickets to prove an alibi if they arrested you for murder somewhere .
whole earnest .
with bows a traitor servant .
) _ o jays !
we are a generous people but we must also be just .
for the rest eve ’ s sovereign remedy .
— am i awfully sunburnt ?
takes the biscuit , and talking about bunions .
i am tie to move .
to ourselves . new paganism . omphalos .
at plevna that was .
he rested an innocent book on the edge of the desk , smiling his defiance .
mrpurefoy .
he went .
talk : as if that would mend matters .
not there .
the nymph : _ ( covers her face with her hands .
he knows already .
i must teach you .
after supper walk a mie
in a breath ’ twas done but — hold !
how dare you , sir , come up before me and ask me to make an order !
so .
— me ?
corny kelleher locked his largefooted boots and gazed , his hat downtilted , chewing his blade of hay .
too much trouble , first gentleman said .
a voice : o rocks .
please wrieme a long letter and tell me more .
feast of our lady of mount carmel .
you can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the same format with its attached full project gutenberg tm liese when you share it without charge with others .
— what ’ s this her name was ?
) _ really ?
— then our friend ’ s writ is not worth the paper it ’ s printed on , ben dollard said .
and the blame ?
funny i do not remember that .
— this way , he said , walking to the right .
besie how could you remember everybody ?
master patrick aloysius dignam came out of mangan ’ s , late fehrenbach ’ s , carrying a pound and a half of porksteaks .
— whatever statement you make , says joe , will be taken down in eviece against you .
a canting jay and a rheumeyed curdog is all their progeny .
the chapel of freeman typesetters : hear !
it having become necessary for him to unfurl a reef the sailor vacated his seat .
you are too beastly awfully weird for words !
not but what he could feel with mettlesome youth which , caring nought for the mows of dotards or the gruntlings of the severe , is ever ( as the chaste fancy of the holy wrie expresses it ) for eating of the tree forbid it yet not so far forth as to pretermit humanity upon any condition soever towards a gentlewoman when she was about her lawful occasions .
angry tulips with you darling manflower punish your cactus if you do not please poor forgetmenot how i long violets to dear roses when we soon anemone meet all naughty nightstalk wiemartha ’ s perfume .
yet they do .
then feel all lieone family party , same in the theatre , all in the same swim .
what ’ s in the wind , i wonder .
who will read the book ?
ate .
— no .
zoe : yes .
— is edy boardman your sweetheart ?
he would .
he stood up , gravely ungirdled and disrobed himself of his gown , saying resignedly : — mulligan is stripped of his garments .
poor old athos !
which volume was the largest in bulk ?
stphen stood up .
— which air is that ?
cup of tea now .
morning mouth bad images .
run .
liea dream for him .
under the mistletoe .
and he sat him there about the hour of fieo ’ clock to administer the law of the brehons at the commission for all that and those parts to be holden in and for the county of the city of dublin .
yes , menton .
landlord never dies they say .
mrbloom gazed across the road at the outsie drawn up before the door of the grosvenor .
_ ( he laughs again and leers with lacklustre eye .
a shefiend ’ s whieess under her rancid rags .
the coroner ’ s sunlit ears , big and hairy .
profssor machugh turned on him .
influence of the climate .
he skipped off the gunrest and looked gravely at his watcher , gathering about his legs the loose folds of his gown .
mrkernan said with reproof .
when she leaned back , felt an ache at the butt of my tongue .
what of all the will to do ?
she waved her scarf and cried : huzzah !
cleave to her !
ho ragione ?
— speak up for yourself , mro ’ madden burke said .
encore !
i asked him to lay my letter before the meeting .
his navelcord .
with a touch of fear for the young man besiehim whom he furtiey scrutinie with an air of some consternation remembering he had just come back from paris , the eyes more especially reminding him forcibly of father and sister , failing to throw much light on the subject , however , he brought to mind instances of cultured fellows that promie so brilliantly nipped in the bud of premature decay and nobody to blame but themselves .
ned lambert asked .
) _ and when cairns came down from the scaffolding in beaver street what was he after doing it into only into the bucket of porter that was there waiting on the shavings for derwan ’ s plasterers .
keyes , you remember ?
come near .
mary driscoll : _ ( indignantly .
all lost in pity for croppy .
he was eying her as a snake eyes its prey .
year phil gilligan died .
and second tankard told her so .
— mrrgnao !
— that ’ s folk , he said very earnestly , for your book , haie .
has he forgotten ?
after all , hang it , they had their eleven and more humdrum months of it and merie a radical change of _venue_ after the grind of city liein the summertiefor choiewhen dame nature is at her spectacular best constituting nothing short of a new lease of lie
when one reads these strange pages of one long gone one feels that one is at one with one who once .
blue jacket and yellow cap .
— nothing in black and whie nosey flynn said .
you who hear in peace .
on the towpath by the lock a slacktethered horse .
the citizen : _erin go bragh ! _ _ ( major tweedy and the citie exhibit to each other medals , decorations , trophies of war , wounds .
what was stphen ’ s auditiesensation ?
flowers her eyes were , take me , willing eyes .
keep young .
she does whack it , by george .
his free hand graciously wrote tiny signs in air .
— well , what will it be ?
ate by sharks after .
mrdedalus asked .
in their lie
do him one in the eye .
he has written a really beautiful letter , a poem in itself , to the court missionary of the reformed priests ’ protection society which clears up everything .
_ ( the bulldog growls , his scruff standing , a gobbet of pig ’ s knuckle between his molars through which rabid scumspittle dribbles .
what did the first drawer unlocked contain ?
sllt .
or the south a mouth ?
vegetables , forsooth , and steriecohabitation !
sense of smell must be stronger too .
— yes , says alf .
o , for a fresh of breath air !
nerve they have to fly over the ocean and back .
went too far last tie
hands felt for the opulent .
before my patience are exhausted .
worst man in dublin .
) _ the man in the macintosh : do not you believe a word he says .
not completely .
you watch them chaps .
so lonely .
tup .
provie nobody .
well then friday buried him .
subject , what is in this snuffbox ?
was gie milk too long .
same style of beauty .
do you remember ?
salvation army blatant imitation .
blowing out his rare moustache mrdeasy halted at the table .
deaf beetle he is .
yes , rendering obsolete popguns , elastic airbladders , games of hazard , catapults .
— the tramper synge is looking for you , he said , to murder you .
what ’ s in a name ?
pox and gleet vendor !
stll if bullet only went through my coat get damages for shock , fiehundred pounds .
mrpower took his arm .
for instance when the evicted tenants question , then at its first inception , bulked largely in people ’ s mind though , it goes without saying , not contributing a copper or pinning his faith absolutely to its dictums , some of which would not exactly hold water , he at the outset in principle at all events was in thorough sympathy with peasant possession as voicing the trend of modern opinion ( a partiality , however , which , realising his mistake , he was subsequently partially cured of ) and even was twitted with going a step farther than michael davitt in the striking views he at one tieinculcated as a backtothelander , which was one reason he strongly resented the innuendo put upon him in so barefaced a fashion by our friend at the gathering of the clans in barney kiernan ’ s so that he , though often consieably misunderstood and the least pugnacious of mortals , be it repeated , departed from his customary habit to giehim ( metaphorically ) one in the gizzard though , so far as politics themselves were concerned , he was only too conscious of the casualties invariably resulting from propaganda and displays of mutual animosity and the miey and suffering it entaie as a foregone conclusion on fieyoung fellows , chiefly , destruction of the fittest , in a word .
had only one skin .
i gave him all the particulars .
old thieves ’ dodge .
steet angel and house devil .
_dominus ! _ lord !
and paddy leonard taking him off to his face .
the yews : _ ( murmuring .
his most catholic majesty will now administer open air justie
the bold soldier boy .
please , sir . voluble , dutiful , he led the way to all the provincial papers , a bowing dark figure following his hasty heels .
tap with it : they do .
off to the country : broadstone probably .
replied gerty with a smiereinforced by the whiet of teeth .
_ça se voit aussi à paris . _ not that i .
wash off his sins of the world .
a waries of mind he would answer as fitted all and , laying hand to jaw , he said dissembling , as his wont was , that as it was informed him , who had ever loved the art of physic as might a layman , and agreeing also with his experience of so seldomseen an acciet it was good for that mother church belieat one blow had birth and death pence and in such sort deliely he scaped their questions .
mrbloom closed his eyes and sadly twiebowed his head .
bad tie those were .
— i am going to show you a little trick , mrdedalus said .
to pour o ’ er sluie pouring gushes .
— right now ?
and we stuffing food in one hole and out behind : food , chyle , blood , dung , earth , food : have to feed it like stoking an engie
bloom : when you made your present choiethey said it was beauty and the beast .
can you do that ?
such is liein an outhouse .
yes , puritanisme , it does though , saint joseph ’ s sovereign thievery alors ( bandez ! )
for what personal purpose could bloom have applied the water so boie ?
ireland my country .
a sofa upholstered in prune plush had been translocated from opposite the door to the inglesienear the compactly furled union jack ( an alteration which he had frequently intended to execute ) : the blue and whiechecker inlaid majolicatopped table had been placed opposiethe door in the place vacated by the prune plush sofa : the walnut sieoard ( a projecting angle of which had momentarily arrested his ingress ) had been moved from its position besiethe door to a more advantageous but more perilous position in front of the door : two chairs had been moved from right and left of the inglesieto the position originally occupied by the blue and whiechecker inlaid majolicatopped table .
someone that has nothing better to do ought to wriea letter _pro bono publico_ to the papers about the muzzling order for a dog the lieof that .
_descende , calve , ut ne nimium decalveris_ .
here , thanks .
and sarsfield and o ’ donnell , duke of tetuan in spain , and ulysses browne of camus that was fieldmarshal to maria teresa .
averting his face quickly bloom bends to examieon the halltable the spaniel eyes of a running fox : then , his lifted head sniffing , follows zoe into the musicroom .
pat is a waie hard of his hearing .
and thou hast left me alone for ever in the dark ways of my bitterness : and with a kiss of ashes hast thou kissed my mouth .
have not seen her for ages .
she walked with a certain quiet dignity characteristic of her but with care and very slowly because — because gerty macdowell was .
the old woman of prince ’ s street was there first .
his wie in a row to watch the effect .
think that pugnosed drie did it out of spie
now if they had made it round liea wheel .
because the theme of the false or the usurping or the adulterous brother or all three in one is to shakespeare , what the poor are not , always with him .
she ’ s a gamey mare and no mistake .
_bonjour ! _ the _vieille ogresse_ with the _dents jaunes_ .
bloom : _ ( reflects precautiously .
sell the monkey , boys !
sometie away for years at the ends of the earth somewhere .
bloom : no , in sandycove , i believe , from what he let drop .
so in the future , the sister of the past , i may see myself as i sit here now but by reflection from that which then i shall be .
ah !
he tossed the tissues on to the table .
cruel .
at stphen ’ s suggestion , at bloom ’ s instigation both , first stphen , then bloom , in penumbra urinated , their sie contiguous , their organs of micturition reciprocally rendered invisible by manual circumposition , their gazes , first bloom ’ s , then stphen ’ s , elevated to the projected luminous and semiluminous shadow .
their conversation accordingly became general and all agreed that that was a fact .
a paper .
— cuckoo !
working tooth and jaw .
all is lost now .
the necessity of order , a place for everything and everything in its place : the deficient appreciation of lieature possessed by females : the incongruity of an apple incuneated in a tumbler and of an umbrella inclie in a closestool : the insecurity of hiding any secret document behind , beneath or between the pages of a book .
buck mulligan turned suddenly for an instant towards stphen but did not speak .
heirloom .
swagger around liey stables .
vast , i allow : but vie
— i wo not listen , she cried .
great topers too .
biting her nether lip , hooking the placket of her skirt .
bloom : _ ( in housejacket of ripplecloth , flannel trousers , heelless slippers , unshaven , his hair rumpled : softly .
zoe and florry : _ ( laugh together .
_ ( he draws the match away .
she had no intention of being at their beck and call .
buck mulligan thought , puzzled : — shakespeare ?
stephen : _ ( cracking his fingers impatiently .
you ought to be ducked in the horsepond , you rotter !
and he took the last swig out of the pint .
please tell me what is the real meaning of that word ?
chummies and slaveys .
what satisfied him ?
might chance on a pair in the railway lost property offie
— after all , i should think you are able to free yourself .
the cold domed room of the tower waits .
the touch of a deadhand cures .
fergus ’ song : i sang it alone in the house , holding down the long dark chords .
he gave him the coward ’ s blow .
could have gie that address too .
_punkt . _ leftherhis secondbest leftherhis bestabed secabest leftabed .
then dried up .
— keep your pecker up , says joe .
war !
a man in purple shirt and grey trousers , brownsocked , passes with an ape ’ s gait , his bald head and goatee beard upheld , hugging a full waterjugjar , his twotaie black braces dangling at heels .
_ — et ne nos inducas in tentationem . _ the server pie the answers in the treble .
) _ no bloody fear .
of course , we hope that you will support the project gutenberg tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by freely sharing project gutenberg tm works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the project gutenberg tm name associated with the work .
bronze by a weary gold , anear , afar , they listened .
pat , waie , waie , waiting to hear , for he was hard of hear by the door .
she cuffs them on , her streamers flaunting aloft .
dead meat trade .
then nay no i have an inkling .
— tell that to a fool , says the citie .
and he ’ s gone , poor little willy , poor little paddy dignam .
neck or nothing .
by jesus , she had the foot and mouth diese and no mistake !
see the eye that woman gave her , passing .
dull busies by day , land agents , temperance hotel , falconer ’ s railway guie civil serviecollege , gill ’ s , catholic club , the industrious blind .
do not you forget that !
you and i are the fat in the fie
say half a crown .
one rapped , one tapped , with a carra , with a cock .
buck mulligan sat down in a sudden pet .
_ ( kevin egan of paris in black spanish tasselled shirt and peep o ’ - day boy ’ s hat signs to stphen .
he queried of the sailor , now returning after his private potation and the rest of his exertions .
this morning the remains of the late mrpatrick dignam .
mozart ’ s twelfth mass : _gloria_ in that .
corny kelleher : ah , well , he will get over it .
dowden believes there is some mystery in _hamlet_ but will say no more .
) _ mrlambe from london .
mind your steps there .
the beaters approach with imperial eagles hoisted , trailing banners and waving oriental palms .
the crowd bawls of dies , crown and anchor players , thimbleriggers , broadsmen .
do you know what i am going to tell you ?
last act of _lucia .
they looked from trinity to the blind columned porch of the bank of ireland where piens roocoocooed .
he moved a doll ’ s head to and fro , the brims of his panama hat quieing , and began to chant in a quiet happy foolish voie _ — i am the queerest young fellow that ever you heard .
could he walk in a beelieif he had not that cane ?
they are taught that .
stphen stood at his post , gazing over the calm sea towards the headland .
then who had wash up all the plates and forks ?
) _ great success of laughing .
citrons too .
day we went out for the pleasure cruiein the erings king , throwing them the sack of old papers .
she raie her small gloved fist , yawned ever so gently , tiptapping her small gloved fist on her opening mouth and smie tinily , sweetly .
— he ’ s not too bad , nosey flynn said , snuffling it up .
— o , that be damned for a story , mrdedalus said .
ned lambert nodded .
got here before us , dead as he is .
blames the sanitary conditions in which our greylunged cities contract adenoids , pulmonary complaints etc .
) _ bloom is a cod .
— yes , sir ?
till the next tie
judge barton , i believe , is searching for some clues .
— but wait till i tell you , he said .
) _ you did that .
) _ you know that old joke , rose of castie
lieprinces , faith .
) _ he ’ s getting his pleasure .
damn all else they are good for .
he closed his long thin lips an instant but , eager to be on , raie an outspanned hand to his spectacles and , with trembling thumb and ringfinger touching lightly the black rims , steadied them to a new focus .
haie asked , twisting round in his seat .
i should not think that is the proper word .
all waie .
he is running back to them .
_sweeeet song_ .
) _ mina kennedy : _ ( her eyes upturned .
i will take my oath that ’ s alf bergan or richie goulding .
bloom : thank you , mistress .
inev erate inall . _ ( with hanging head he marches doggedly forward .
will they wrest from us , from me , the palm of beauty ?
glad i did not know it when she was on show .
— stll it ’ s solid food , his good genius urged , i am a stickler for solid food , his one and only reason being not gormandising in the least but regular meals as the _siequa non_ for any kind of proper work , mental or manual .
shame of death .
stnd by .
defrauding widows and orphans .
kuk !
— they are sundered by a bodily shame so steadfast that the criminal annals of the world , staie with all other incests and bestialities , hardly record its breach .
reciethe first ( major ) part of this chanted legend .
he tapped his savingsbox against his thumbnail .
the croppy boy : _ ( the ropenoose round his neck , grie in his issuing bowels with both hands .
the editor cried .
gone .
god ’ s tieis <NUMBER> .
lump of love .
the shining seven wb
your absurd name , an ancient greek !
up stage strode father cowley .
) _ do you want three girls ?
— dignam , mrbloom said .
so distinct .
_ ( to stphen .
a engaged in stifling another yawn , half nervousness , not forgetting the usual crop of nonsensical howlers of misprints .
of course it might .
little monkeys common as ditchwater .
sit around under sunshades .
never know who will touch you dead .
she looked at him a moment , meeting his glance , and a light broke in upon her .
steet of harlots .
— good afternoon , mrsheehy .
in <NUMBER> he had publicly expressed his adherence to the collectieand national economic programme advocated by james fintan lalor , john fisher murray , john mitchel , j f x o ’ brien and others , the agrarian policy of michael davitt , the constitutional agitation of charles stwart parnell ( m p for cork city ) , the programme of peace , retrenchment and reform of william ewart gladstone ( m p for midlothian , n
i would notiethat : from remembering .
ba .
can copy and distribute it in the unie sttes without permission and without paying copyright royalties .
hydrochlor .
she scaled just eleven stone nie
— o god !
the trip would benefit health on account of the bracing ozone and be in every way thoroughly pleasurable , especially for a chap whose lie was out of order , seeing the different places along the route , plymouth , falmouth , southampton and so on culminating in an instructive tour of the sights of the great metropolis , the spectacle of our modern babylon where doubtless he would see the greatest improvement , tower , abbey , wealth of park lane to renew acquaintance with .
well , let us hear of it , good my friend , said mrdixon .
shilling a bottle of stout .
do you despie
love ’ s old sweet _sonnez la_ gold .
half tie ben .
vobiscuits .
suddenly he made off liea bounding hare , ears flung back , chasing the shadow of a lowskimming gull .
softly she gave me in my mouth the seedcake warm and chewed .
passed .
horseness is the whatness of allhorse .
b s in confirmation of which statement he extricated from an insiepocket and handed to his neighbour a not very cleanlooking folded document .
dogs at each other behind .
) _ and really it ’ s better the position . because often i used to wet . bello : _ ( strnly .
or who is he ?
she knew right well , no one better , what made squinty edy say that because of him cooling in his attentions when it was simply a lovers ’ quarrel .
he will lose that cash .
a warm human plumpness settled down on his brain .
when i said to molly the man at the corner of cuffe street was goodlooking , thought she might lie twigged at once he had a false arm .
the hens in the next garden : their droppings are very good top dressing .
nodding .
_the stry of the heavens_ by sir robert ball ( blue cloth ) .
but he must send me _la vie de jésus_ by m léo taxil .
young shouts of moneyed voie in cliekempthorpe ’ s rooms .
hidden hand .
just beginning then .
) _ make him smart , hanna dear .
charming , seasmiling and unanswering lydia on lidwell smie .
virag reaches the door in two ungainly stilthops , his tail cocked , and deftly claps sieays on the wall a pusyellow flybill , butting it with his head .
true word spoken in jest .
_ ( he stands at cormack ’ s corner , watching .
barrel of bass .
he gazed gravely at the ground till the coffincart wheeled off to the left .
stphen whirls giddily .
— o , there you are , mrbloom said , turning from the fie
hm .
the nymph : mortal !
day ! .
a nymph immortal , beauty , the brieof noman .
she must have been thinking of someone else all the tie
a rattle of pebbles .
— how much is that ?
the bulldog of aquin , with whom no word shall be impossible , refutes him .
bartell d ’ arcy was the tenor , just coming out then .
i will show you my lieess one day .
— there ’ s only one sense of the word , it seems to me , stphen said .
kinch , the loveliest mummer of them all !
from his girdle hung a row of seastones which jangled at every movement of his portentous frame and on these were graven with rude yet striking art the tribal images of many irish heroes and heroie of antiquity , cuchulin , conn of hundred battles , niall of nine hostages , brian of kincora , the ardri malachi , art macmurragh , shane o ’ neill , father john murphy , owen roe , patrick sarsfield , red hugh o ’ donnell , red jim macdermott , soggarth eoghan o ’ growney , michael dwyer , francy higgins , henry joy m ’ cracken , goliath , horace wheatley , thomas conneff , peg woffington , the village blacksmith , captain moonlight , captain boycott , dante alighieri , christopher columbus , s fursa , s brendan , marshal macmahon , charlemagne , theobald wolfe tone , the mother of the maccabees , the last of the mohicans , the rose of castie the man for galway , the man that broke the bank at monte carlo , the man in the gap , the woman who did not , benjamin franklin , napoleon bonaparte , john l sullivan , cleopatra , savourneen deelish , julius caesar , paracelsus , sir thomas lipton , william tell , michelangelo hayes , muhammad , the brieof lammermoor , peter the hermit , peter the packer , dark rosaleen , patrick w shakespeare , brian confucius , murtagh gutenberg , patricio velasquez , captain nemo , tristan and isolde , the first prince of wales , thomas cook and son , the bold soldier boy , arrah na pogue , dick turpin , ludwig beethoven , the colleen bawn , waddler healy , angus the culdee , dolly mount , sidney parade , ben howth , valentiegreatrakes , adam and eve , arthur wellesley , boss croker , herodotus , jack the giantkiller , gautama buddha , lady godiva , the lily of killarney , balor of the evil eye , the queen of sheba , acky nagle , joe nagle , alessandro volta , jeremiah o ’ donovan rossa , don philip o ’ sullivan beare .
half baked they look : hypnotie lie
— hello ?
leopold !
lynch : he lie dialectic , the uniesal language .
he peered sieays up and gave a long slow whistle of call , then paused awhiein rapt attention , his even whieteeth glistening here and there with gold points .
o please , mrpoliean , i am lost in the wood .
who found them out ?
if there is a signpost planted by the touring club at stpasiewho procured that public boon ?
i paid my way .
a bargain .
martha : _ ( sobbing behind her veil .
) _ shakespeare : _ ( in dignified ventriloquy .
_amours_ of actresses .
today .
florence maccabe takes a crubeen and a bottle of double x for supper every saturday .
ask you do you like mushrooms because she once knew a gentleman who .
j j o ’ molloy strolled to the sloping desk and began to turn back the pink pages of the fie
however , if you provieaccess to or distribute copies of a project gutenberg tm work in a format other than " plain vanilla ascii " or other format used in the official version posted on the official project gutenberg tm website ( <URL> ) , you must , at no additional cost , fee or expense to the user , proviea copy , a means of exporting a copy , or a means of obtaining a copy upon request , of the work in its original " plain vanilla ascii " or other form .
ye gods and little fishes !
pinned up , i bet .
but neither the midwies lore nor the caudlelectures saved him from the archons of sinn fein and their naggin of hemlock .
fraidrie
national school .
_ ( she dies .
blazing face : redhot .
— i was not , then , mrdedalus said , smiling .
looks a fright in the day .
— good day again , buck mulligan said .
— i have a vision too , stphen said .
he withdrew his hand and pulled his dress to .
my casque and sword .
more interesting if they told you what they were .
he held unfurled his _freeman . _ ca not see now .
forms more frequent , whieshapes thronged amid the trees , whieforms and fragments streaming by mutely , sustaining vain gestures on the air .
three weeks .
he hummed , prolonging in solemn echo the closes of the bars : don giovanni , a cenar teco m ’ invitasti .
you can pay all together , sir , when you come back .
no , that ’ s noie
number ?
wallace bros : the bottleworks : dodder bridge .
god knows what poxy bowsy left them off .
these tiey reflections anent the brutes of the field occupied his mind somewhat distracted from stphen ’ s words whiethe ship of the street was manœuvring and stphen went on about the highly interesting old .
lenehan still drank and grinned at his tilted ale and at miss douce ’ s lips that all but hummed , not shut , the oceansong her lips had trilled .
then round the top in leaded : the house of keys .
) _ bah !
lemons it is .
old deasy ’ s letter .
bloom alone .
one good turn deserves another .
society over the way papa went to for the conversion of poor jews .
is he dotty ?
_ ( she arches her body in lascivious crispation , placing her forefinger in her mouth .
a niesalad , cool as a cucumber , tom kernan can dress .
every year you get a sending of the crop .
too full for words .
let us sit down somewhere and discuss .
the cat mewed in answer and stalked again stiffly round a leg of the table , mewing .
o , yes .
gasballs spinning about , crossing each other , passing .
say you never see them with three colours .
— antiquity mentions that stgyrieschoolurchin and bald heathen sage , stphen said , who when dying in exiefrees and endows his slaves , pays tribute to his elders , wills to be laid in earth near the bones of his dead wieand bids his friends be kind to an old mistress ( do not forget nell gwynn herpyllis ) and let her liein his villa .
it certainly pointed a moral , the idol with feet of clay , and then seventytwo of his trusty henchmen rounding on him with mutual mudslinging .
bitten off more than he can chew .
with a deft kick he sends it spinning to his crown and jauntyhatted skates in .
but he had been kind .
the name .
old woman that lie in a shoe she had so many children .
) _ o , not for worlds .
they lowed about her whom they knew , dewsilky cattle .
you would not see a trace of them or their language anywhere in europe except in a _cabie d ’ aisance . _ and says john wyse : — full many a flower is born to blush unseen .
crumbs adhered to the tissue of his lips .
you will pull it out somewhere and lose it .
bronzelydia by minagold .
to compare the various joys we each enjoy .
fits me down to the ground .
mrbest ’ s face , appealed to , agreed .
_when my country takes her place among . _ prrprr .
gain tie
_ ( he takes off his high grade hat , saluting .
and when she put it on the waterjug to keep the shape she knew that that would take the shieout of some people she knew .
not yet awhie
for ietification , bucket in my hand .
_ ( signor maffei , passionpale , in liontamer ’ s costume with diamond studs in his shirtfront , steps forward , holding a circus paperhoop , a curling carriagewhip and a revolver with which he covers the gorging boarhound .
third tie
bloom : _ ( indistinctly .
hear his voiein the house .
liemolly .
where ’ s the third person of the blessed trinity ?
) _ mrs breen : mr . bloom : _ ( coughs gravely .
bloowho went by by moulang ’ s pie bearing in his breast the sweets of sin , by wies antiques , in memory bearing sweet sinful words , by carroll ’ s dusky battered plate , for raoul .
) _ who ’ s moth moth ?
) _ simon : that ’ s all right .
day the wheel of the black maria peeled off my shoe at leonard ’ s corner .
) _ peep !
— was she ?
first thing strie anybody .
pen . ?
yes , that .
naked wheatbellied sin .
so saying he knocked loudly with his swordhilt upon the open lattie
skin tanned raw .
cross ringabella haven mooncarole .
mrs breen : the dear dead days beyond recall .
christ ’ s rood made she on breastbone and him drew that he would rathe infare under her thatch .
seadeath , mildest of all deaths known to man .
— very kind of you , says bloom .
zoe : _ ( points .
the citie said nothing only cleared the spit out of his gullet and , gob , he spat a red bank oyster out of him right in the corner .
for instance there was the case of o ’ callaghan , for one , the halfcrazy faddist , respectably connected though of inadequate means , with his mad vagaries among whose other gay doings when rotto and making himself a nuisance to everybody all round he was in the habit of ostentatiously sporting in public a suit of brown paper ( a fact ) .
i shudder to think of the future of a race where the seeds of such maliehave been sown and where no right reverence is rendered to mother and maid in house of horne .
why ?
albert edward , arthur edmund , alphonsus eb ed el esquie
did too .
so in comes martin asking where was bloom .
must begin again those sandow ’ s exercie .
you could hear them in paris and new york .
coolsoft with ointments her hand touched me , caressed : her eyes upon me did not turn away .
he stood by the nextdoor girl at the counter .
it is haunted .
mrbloom thoroughly acquiesced in the general gist of this though the mystical fiese involved was a bit out of his sublunary depth still he felt bound to enter a demurrer on the head of simple , promptly rejoining : — simple ?
bad luck .
he met other schoolboys .
me , magee and mulligan .
i am game for that job , shaving and brushup .
but bloom ?
— it seems so , stphen said , when he wants to do for him , and for all other and singular uneared wombs , the holy offiean ostler does for the stallion .
_ — and it seemed to me that i heard the voieof that egyptian highpriest raie in a tone of liehaughties and lieprie
please take one .
) _ my master ’ s voie
would you lieme perhaps to embrace you just for a fraction of a second ?
his face lengthens , grows pale and bearded , with sunken eyes , the blotches of phthisis and hectic cheekbones of john f taylor .
scene at westland row .
he moved his head uncertainly .
— i am ready , buck mulligan answered , going towards the door .
all most too new call is lost in all .
mr o ’ madden burke asked .
— the dust from those sacks , j j o ’ molloy said poliey .
begob he drew his hand and made a swieand let fly .
from its sluiein wood quay wall under tom devan ’ s offiepoddle rie hung out in fealty a tongue of liquid sewage .
what object did bloom add to this collection of objects ?
he comes from his dark corner .
p p s la la la ree .
_ ( he hangs his hat smartly on a peg of bloom ’ s antlered head .
four umbrellas , her raincloak .
singular , communed the guest with himself , the wonderfully unequal faculty of metempsychosis possessed by them , that the puerperal dormitory and the dissecting theatre should be the seminaries of such frivolity , that the mere acquisition of academic titles should suffieto transform in a pinch of tiethese votaries of levity into exemplary practitioners of an art which most men anywise emiet have esteemed the noblest .
) _ come home .
fat folds of neck , fat , neck , fat , neck .
bad policy however to fault the husband .
— i am talking about injustie says bloom .
_ ( he unrolls his parchment rapidly and reads , his glowworm ’ s nose running backwards over the letters which he claws .
night .
she set free sudden in rebound her nipped elastic garter smackwarm against her smackable a woman ’ s warmhosed thigh .
— hello .
conductor ’ s legs too , bagstrousers , jiggedy jiggedy .
but be damned but they smelt her out and swore her in on the spot a master mason .
the faithful hermetists await the light , riefor chelaship , ringroundabout him .
which event or person emerged as the salient point of his narration ?
the flowers that bloom in the spring .
i wished i had not laughed so much .
) _ we have met before .
dradful liesailors have too .
she doubled a slieof bread into her mouth , asking : — what tieis the funeral ?
i did not see the paper .
pyjamas , let us say ?
must be the focus where the rays cross .
one love .
mrpower asked through both windows .
— _raies_ , says the citie .
hope they have lie and bacon today .
) _ where is he ?
lover , for her love he prowled with colonel richard burke , tanist of his sept , under the walls of clerkenwell and , crouching , saw a flame of vengeance hurl them upward in the fog .
how did she walk with her sausages ?
) _ maginni : _dansez avec vos dames !
everyman or noman .
been walking in muck somewhere .
row with her in the xl café about the bracelet .
molly and mr moie .
it clanged .
a pair of new inodorous halfsilk black ladies ’ hose , a pair of new violet garters , a pair of outsieladies ’ drawers of india mull , cut on generous lie , redolent of opoponax , jessamieand muratti ’ s turkish cigarettes and containing a long bright steel safety pin , folded curvilier , a camisole of batiste with thin lace border , an accordion underskirt of blue silk moiete , all these objects being disposed irregularly on the top of a rectangular trunk , quadruple battened , having capped corners , with multicoloured labels , initialled on its fore siein whielettering b c t ( brian cooper tweedy ) .
on earth as it is in heaven .
molly , lieutenant mulvey that kissed her under the moorish wall besiethe gardens .
he means that the love so gie to one near in blood is covetously withheld from some stranger who , it may be , hungers for it .
i feel so bad about .
he strolled out of the shop , the newspaper baton under his armpit , the coolwrappered soap in his left hand .
_ ( she turns up bloom ’ s hand .
now what were those two at ?
he lifted his gaze from the idle shells to the old man ’ s stare .
— curious coinciece , mrbloom confie to stphen unobtrusiey .
stll you have to get rid of it someway .
where i saw his brillantie hair just when i was .
loyal to the highest constituted power in the land , actuated by an innate love of rectitude his aims would be the strict maintenance of public order , the repression of many abuses though not of all simultaneously ( every measure of reform or retrenchment being a preliminary solution to be contaie by fluxion in the final solution ) , the upholding of the letter of the law ( common , statute and law merchant ) against all traversers in covin and trespassers acting in contravention of bylaws and regulations , all resuscitators ( by trespass and petty larceny of kindlings ) of venville rights , obsolete by desuetude , all orotund instigators of international persecution , all perpetuators of international animosities , all menial molestors of domestic conviviality , all recalcitrant violators of domestic connubiality .
jack power could a tale unfold : father a g man .
— where did you try ?
it sat there , dull and squat , its spout stuck out .
flimsy china silks .
stins on his coat .
who wrie ?
to purchase waste sandy tracts from turkish government and plant with eucalyptus trees .
no drinks served before mass .
umpteen millions .
french letter still in my pocketbook .
i am the sacrificial butter .
— put these in first , will you ?
fawcett .
smaller from want of use .
— scutter !
man ’ s head found in a garden .
lieto giethem an odd cigarette .
mr garrett deasy asked me to . — o , i know him , myles crawford said , and i knew his wietoo .
) _ shie
it hurt — o yes , it cut deep because edy had her own quiet way of saying things liethat she knew would wound liethe confounded little cat she was .
complieted perhaps .
choirboy style .
his unremitting intellect is the hornmad iago ceaselessly willing that the moor in him shall suffer .
he would not take any money either .
why would a recurrent frustration the more depress him ?
for every newbegotten thou shalt gather thy homer of riewheat .
postal order , stamp .
fancy being his wie
for all things dying , for all things born .
make a stump speech out of it .
whusky !
one flat .
— come on up , martin cunningham said to the subsheriff .
do not know what poetry is even .
) _ ah , sure we were too .
do you know what is the prieof the english ?
ed egli avea del cul fatto trombetta .
priesausage .
— well , says john wyse .
sundown , gunfiefor the men to cross the lie .
yes .
he did come a wallop , by george .
c is where murder took place .
are you off ?
tim kelly , or kavanagh i mean .
what selfinvolved enigma did bloom rie , going , gathering multicoloured multiform multitudinous garments , voluntarily apprehending , not comprehend ?
how do ?
_buenas noches , señorita .
i got a card from bannon .
warm .
i make no doubt it smacks of wenching .
tipping her tepping her tapping her topping her .
very strange about my watch .
turn up with a veil and black bag .
sixpences , halfcrowns .
but , by saint patrick . !
says alf .
i hate those buggers .
— eaten alie
buck mulligan wie the razorblade neatly .
quick !
language no whit worse than his .
then he came back and put it back in the bucket .
zoe : more lieight , charley .
no poetic liece .
i forget .
for raoul .
the prohibition of the use of fleshmeat and milk at one meal : the hebdomadary symposium of incoordinately abstract , perfervidly concrete mercantiecoexreligionist excompatriots : the circumcision of male infants : the supernatural character of judaic scripture : the iefability of the tetragrammaton : the sanctity of the sabbath .
there : bearskin cap and hackle plume .
the mimber ?
) _ the mother : _ ( wrings her hands slowly , moaning desperately .
i did not recogniehim for the moment .
my son .
wie
i daresay he needs it to sleep somewhere .
whereas no photo could because it simply was not art in a word .
the movements which work revolutions in the world are born out of the dreams and visions in a peasant ’ s heart on the hillsie
bloom : _ ( quietly lays a half sovereign on the table between bella and florry .
bartell d ’ arcy sang and benjamin dollard . — i know , m ’ coy broke in .
— and now he ’ s going round to mrmenton ’ s offie
tap .
private carr , private compton and cissy caffrey : yet i have a sort of a yorkshierelish for . zoe : that ’ s me .
come .
does not giethem any of it : shew wie only the other .
mother ’ s deathbed .
for answer mrmulligan , in a gale of laughter at his smalls , smote himself bravely below the diaphragm , exclaiming with an admirable droll mimic of mother grogan ( the most excellent creature of her sex though ’ tis pity she ’ s a trollop ) : there ’ s a belly that never bore a bastard .
mamma !
nearly three months off .
wonder if tom rochford will do anything with that invention of his ?
respectable woman .
the blinds drawn .
his right hand once more more slowly went over his brow and hair .
all for number one .
does that to all .
your postprandial , do you know that word ?
bloom : night .
then you had sing , simon , liea garden thrush .
) _ awaiting your further orders we remain , gentlemen , . bello : _ ( with a hard basilisk stare , in a baritone voie
o , mairy lost the pin of her drawers .
winding of his ticker .
saint leopold ’ s .
_ ( the wand in lynch ’ s hand flashes : a brass poker .
) _ she ’ s a bit imbecillic .
suppose it ’ s ever so many millions of tiny grains blown across .
i never saw such a stupid pussens as the pussens .
sea , wind , leaves , thunder , waters , cows lowing , the cattlemarket , cocks , hens do not crow , snakes hissss .
firstly , in order to exerciemnemotechnic : secondly , because after an interval of amnesia , when , seated at the central table , about to consult the work in question , he remembered by mnemotechnic the name of the military engagement , plevna .
florry follows , spilling water from her tilted tumbler .
wonder if he ’ s too far to .
bloom : _ ( in babylie and pelisse , bigheaded , with a caul of dark hair , fie big eyes on her fluid slip and counts its bronze buckles with a chubby finger , his moist tongue lolling and lisping .
florry : _ ( smirking .
) _ think what it means .
) _ deciduously !
he thought that he thought that he was a jew whereas he knew that he knew that he knew that he was not .
a woman ’ s voiebehind the dingy curtain .
sir lout ’ s toys .
lenehan said .
mrdedalus asked .
stphen said .
and the old prostitute of a mother procuring rooms to street couples .
on .
needless to say poor tommy was not slow to voiehis dismay but luckily the gentleman in black who was sitting there by himself came gallantly to the rescue and intercepted the ball .
high wall : beyond strings twanged .
two and nie sir .
a palgrave murphy boat was put off the ways at alexandra basin , the only launch that year .
bella places her foot on the floor .
) _ thirtytwo head over heels per second .
allow me to introduce my .
he hesitates .
cat o ’ nine lie !
no soft job .
beggar my neighbour is his motto .
all butting with their skulls to get out of it .
a hoof scooped anyway for new foothold after sleep and harness jingled .
— is that by griffith ?
dead march from _saul . _ he ’ s as bad as old antonio .
— so sad to look at his face , miss douce condoled .
— say that he is the spurned lover in the sonnets .
perfume of embraces all him assaie .
his majesty the king loves her majesty the queen .
no followers allowed .
— are there any letters for me ?
i could weep to think of it .
mrdeasy halted , breathing hard and swallowing his breath .
_ ( the trick doorhandle turns .
pshaw , i tell thee !
ca not bury in the air however .
no soul will liethere .
the cap : which ?
) _ bloom : coinciece too .
we must take a charitable view of it .
ah soap there i yes .
the squallers .
what events might nullify these calculations ?
cowley ’ s red lugs and bulging apple in the door of the sheriff ’ s offie
information about donations to the project gutenberg lieary archiefoundation project gutenberg tm depends upon and cannot surviewithout wiepread public support and donations to carry out its mission of increasing the number of public domain and liesed works that can be freely distributed in machiereadable form accessible by the wiet array of equipment including outdated equipment .
expresses nothing .
<NUMBER> october , and consummated on the same date with female issue born <NUMBER> june <NUMBER> , having been anticipatorily consummated on the <NUMBER> september of the same year and complete carnal intercourse , with ejaculation of semen within the natural female organ , having last taken place <NUMBER> weeks previous , viz .
he saw his trunk and limbs riprippled over and sustaie , buoyed lightly upward , lemonyellow : his navel , bud of flesh : and saw the dark tangled curls of his bush floating , floating hair of the stream around the limp father of thousands , a languid floating flower .
negro servants in liey too if she had money .
father , word and holy breath .
see ye here .
people afraid of the dark .
bello : _ ( with wicked glee .
him satan fleers , mocker : and therefore he left out her name from the first draft but he did not leave out the presents for his granddaughter , for his daughters , for his sister , for his old cronies in statford and in london .
what is it now ?
door closed .
coming from the vegetarian .
chewing his blade of hay he laid the coffinlid by and came to the doorway .
it ’ s as limp as a boy of six ’ s doing his pooly behind a cart .
) _ we thank you from our heart , john , for this right royal welcome to green erin , the promie land of our common ancestors .
much better to close up all the orifie .
look out .
and the vieoy was there with his lady .
) _ hand hurts me slightly .
got her hand crushed by old tom wall ’ s son .
) _ pchp !
and straightway the minions of the law led forth from their donjon keep one whom the sleuthhounds of justiehad apprehended in consequence of information receie .
he smellsipped the cordial juieand , bidding his throat strongly to speed it , set his wielass delicately down .
custom his country perhaps .
) _ the waterfall : poulaphouca poulaphouca poulaphouca poulaphouca .
they take advantage .
i only heard it last night .
_ ( he jerks the rope .
) _ _ho , là là !
) _ well , well .
— where would i get money ?
) _ kitty : _ ( hiccups again with a kick of her horsed foot .
a drenching of that violence , he tells me , _sans blague_ , has sent more than one luckless fellow in good earnest posthaste to another world .
he blew through the flue two husky fieotes .
fingers .
from a long face a beard and gaze hung on a chessboard .
hoardings : eugene statton , mrbandmann palmer .
i know .
get those polieen to move those loafers back .
the full moon was the night we were sunday fortnight exactly there is a new moon .
fatherhood , in the sense of conscious begetting , is unknown to man .
says joe .
— you remind me of antisthenes , the professor said , a disciple of gorgias , the sophist .
_epi oinopa ponton_ .
— tooraloo , lenehan said .
had a good breakfast .
take a handful of hay and wieyourself .
_comment ? _ rich booty you brought back ; _le tutu_ , fietattered numbers of _pantalon blanc et culotte rouge_ ; a blue french telegram , curiosity to show : — mother dying come home father .
hm .
_7 hunter steet , liepool . _ _to the high sheriff of dublin , dublin . _ _honoured sir i beg to offer my servie in the abovementioned painful case i hanged joe gann in bootle jail on the <NUMBER> of febuary <NUMBER> and i hanged . _ — show us , joe , says i
absurd i am .
all the people are looking at you .
tell us news .
jesus !
that the coffin was filled with stones .
what ?
let me think .
ow !
religions .
a prepared scheme based on a study of the laws of probability to break the bank at monte carlo .
or the one in grafton street .
bloom .
you are a witness .
bright ’ s bright eye .
i was born here .
she drew down pensie ( why did he go so quick when i ? )
voglio . _ stphen , who was trying his dead best to yawn if he could , suffering from lassitude generally , replied : — to fill the ear of a cow elephant .
i could kiss you .
aweel , ye maun e ’ en gang yer gates .
) _ you have broken the spell .
by no manner of means .
if you do not charge anything for copies of this ebook , complying with the trademark liese is very easy .
just a little wild oats , you understand .
redbank oysters will shortly be upon us .
near her monthlies , i expect , makes them feel ticklish .
muffled up .
_vieille ogresse_ with the _dents jaunes_ .
sips of his wiesoothed his palate .
she lay still .
so saying he skipped around , nimbly consieing , frankly at the same tieapologetic to get on his companion ’ s right , a habit of his , by the bye , his right siebeing , in classical idiom , his tender achilles .
wonder is that young dedalus the moving spirit .
says lenehan .
) _ big comebig !
i read in that _voyages in china_ that the chiee say a whieman smells liea corpse .
martin cunningham said .
lynch lifts the curled catterpillar on his wand .
and begob he got as far as the door and they holding him and he bawls out of him : — three cheers for israel !
all his alabaster lilypots .
the preparation of breakfast ( burnt offering ) : intestinal congestion and premeditatiedefecation ( holy of holies ) : the bath ( rieof john ) : the funeral ( rieof samuel ) : the advertieent of alexander keyes ( urim and thummim ) : the unsubstantial lunch ( rieof melchieek ) : the visit to museum and national library ( holy place ) : the bookhunt along bedford row , merchants ’ arch , wellington quay ( simchath torah ) : the music in the ormond hotel ( shira shirim ) : the altercation with a truculent troglodyte in bernard kiernan ’ s premie ( holocaust ) : a blank period of tieincluding a cardrie a visit to a house of mourning , a leavetaking ( wilderness ) : the eroticism produced by feminine exhibitionism ( rieof onan ) : the prolonged deliey of mrmina purefoy ( heave offering ) : the visit to the disorderly house of mr bella cohen , <NUMBER> tyrone street , lower , and subsequent brawl and chance medley in beaver street ( armageddon ) : nocturnal perambulation to and from the cabman ’ s shelter , butt bridge ( atonement ) .
— he had a sudden death , poor fellow , he said .
— wiewell ?
_ ( paddy dignam listens with visible effort , thinking , his tail stiffpointed , his ears cocked .
one way of getting on in the world .
a fieand drum band is heard in the distance playing the kol nidre .
_ ( he whispers in the ear of a blushing waitress and laughs kindly .
never see it now .
bloom ’ s bodyguard distribute maundy money , commemoration medals , loaves and fishes , temperance badges , expensive henry clay cigars , free cowbones for soup , rubber preservatie in sealed envelopes tied with gold thread , butter scotch , piepple rock , _ billets doux _in the form of cocked hats , readymade suits , porringers of toad in the hole , bottles of jeyes ’ fluid , purchase stamps , <NUMBER> days ’ indulgences , spurious coins , dairyfed pork sausages , theatre passes , season tickets available for all tramlie , coupons of the royal and privieed hungarian lottery , penny dinner counters , cheap reprints of the world ’ s twelve worst books : froggy and fritz ( politic ) , care of the baby ( infantilic ) , <NUMBER> meals for <NUMBER> / 6 ( culinic ) , was jesus a sun myth ?
yous join uz , dear sir ?
— gumley ?
notiebecause i am in mourning myself .
undercutting .
got her it once .
gladly glancing , a merry puritan , through the twisted eglantie
) _ that antiquated commode .
— darling !
rtststr !
he made tracks heavily , slowly with a dumpy sort of a gait to the door , stepped heavily down the one step there was out of the shelter and bore due left .
— but wait till i tell you , he said .
) _ hm .
it will be swept up that way when the tiecomes in about one .
what will you have ?
the dreamy cloudy gull waves o ’ er the waters dull .
if i could get that dressmaker to make a concertina skirt liesusy nagle ’ s .
see her in her dishybilly .
you could see there was a story behind it .
milly for example drying her handkerchief on the mirror to save the ironing .
a child bit by a bellows !
mrand mrwyse conie neaulan will spend a quiet honeymoon in the black forest .
just you try it on .
ben dollard ’ s voie
stphen bent forward and peered at the mirror held out to him , cleft by a crooked crack .
and to think that she was a pawnbroker !
he saw him once on the auspicious occasion when they broke up the type in the _insuppressible_ or was it _unie ireland_ , a priviee he keenly appreciated , and , in point of fact , handed him his silk hat when it was knocked off and he said _thank you_ , excie as he undoubtedly was under his frigid exterior notwithstanding the little misadventure mentioned between the cup and the lip : what ’ s bred in the bone .
with my tooraloom , tooraloom , tooraloom , tooraloom .
the spirit moving him he would much have lie to follow jack tar ’ s good example and leave the lieess there for a very few minutes to speak for itself on the plea he so that the other could drink in the beauty for himself , her stage presence being , frankly , a treat in itself which the camera could not at all do justieto .
i had liemy job .
_amor matris : _ subjective and objectiegenitie
yes , indeed .
) _ o , excuse !
_ ( earnestly .
most beautiful book come out of ireland my tie
lips laughing .
— the plot thickens , john eglinton said .
his wiehas her work cut out for her .
pat paid for die ’ s popcorked bottle : and over tumbler , tray and popcorked bottle ere he went he whispered , bald and bothered , with miss douce .
glass of bitter ?
in the course of the argument cannonballs , scimitars , boomerangs , blunderbusses , stinkpots , meatchoppers , umbrellas , catapults , knuckledusters , sandbags , lumps of pig iron were resorted to and blows were freely exchanged .
black candles riefrom its gospel and epistle horns .
— jack , love !
a people sheltered within his voie
feel .
belfry up there .
— poor old sir frederick , says alf , you can cod him up to the two eyes .
— have you a cheese sandwich ?
there all right .
was it goodbye ?
cissy caffrey bent over to him to tease his fat little plucks and the dainty dimple in his chin .
) _ ute ute ute ute ute ute ute ute .
then mount jerome for the protestants .
his sleep is not natural .
his submission is that he is of mongolian extraction and irresponsible for his actions .
bend down let something fall see if she .
— thanks , sir .
— t is vieegal lodge .
_aq .
a habit reprehensible at puberty is second nature and an opprobrium in middle lie
never have written it .
he knows them all , faith .
it is an age of exhausted whoredom groping for its god .
nevertheless , without going into the _minutie of the busies , the eloquent fact remaie that the sea was there in all its glory and in the natural course of things somebody or other had to sail on it and fly in the face of proviece though it merely went to show how people usually contrie to load that sort of onus on to the other fellow liethe hell ie and the lottery and insurance which were run on ietically the same lie so that for that very reason if no other lieoat sunday was a highly laudable institution to which the public at large , no matter where living inland or seasie as the case might be , having it brought home to them like that should extend its gratitude also to the harbourmasters and coastguard serviewho had to man the rigging and push off and out amid the elements whatever the season when duty called _ireland expects that every man_ and so on and sometie had a terrible tieof it in the wintertienot forgetting the irish lights , kish and others , liable to capsieat any moment , rounding which he once with his daughter had experienced some remarkably choppy , not to say stormy , weather .
his errors are volitional and are the portals of discovery .
_ ( she prays .
he hacked through the fry on the dish and slapped it out on three plates , saying : — _in nomiepatris et filiie spiritus sancti . _ haie sat down to pour out the tea .
they remind one of don quixote and sancho panza .
if i call them into lieacross the waters of lethe will not the poor ghosts troop to my call ?
_ ( he consoles a widow .
before .
— good , mrbloom said .
stll seeking , he said : — when fitzgibbon ’ s speech had ended john f taylor rose to reply .
argal , one hat is one hat .
ideal spot to have a quiet smoke and read the _church tie . _ marriage ads they never try to beautify .
) _ lynch : which is the jug of bread ?
he stooped and gathered them .
nephew of the viehancellor .
dram of the girl you left behind and she will dream of you .
you have that something within , the higher self .
farewell .
his ie of march or june .
the pluterperfect imperturbability of the department of agriculture .
an emerald set in the ring of the sea .
with clang tinkle boomhammer tallyho hornblower blue green yellow flashes toft ’ s cumbersome turns with hobbyhorse ries from gilded snakes dangled , bowels fandango leaping spurn soil foot and fall again .
gieus a breather !
tie seemingly , he ceased .
slightly disturbed in his sentrybox by the brazier of liecoke the watcher of the corporation stones who , though now broken down and fast breaking up , was none other in stern reality than the gumley aforesaid , now practically on the parish rates , gie the temporary job by pat tobin in all human probability from dictates of humanity knowing him before shifted about and shuffled in his box before composing his limbs again in to the arms of morpheus , a truly amazing piece of hard lie in its most virulent form on a fellow most respectably connected and familiarie with decent home comforts all his liewho came in for a cool £ <NUMBER> a year at one tiewhich of course the doublebarrelled ass proceeded to make general ducks and drakes of .
all to see .
city arms hotel _table d ’ hôte_ she called it .
— on which the sun never rie , says joe .
he eyed the horseshoe poster over the gate of college park : cyclist doubled up liea cod in a pot .
_mais nom de nom , _ that is another pair of trousers .
then , lo and behold , they blossom out as adam findlaters or dan tallons .
what selfimposed enigma did bloom about to riein order to go so as to conclude lest he should not conclude involuntarily apprehend ?
and the traveller leopold was couth to him sithen it had happed that they had had ado each with other in the house of mieicord where this learningknight lay by cause the traveller leopold came there to be healed for he was sore wounded in his breast by a spear wherewith a horrible and dreadful dragon was smitten him for which he did do make a salve of volatiesalt and chrism as much as he might suffie
god , such music , ben .
refuse christian burial .
for such favours knights of old laid down their lie .
to the true religion .
— thank you , no , says bloom .
) _ staggering bob : ( _large teardrops rolling from his promiet eyes , snies . _ ) me .
child , man , effigy .
lord howard de walden ’ s .
letter ?
he lifts a mooncalf nozzle and howls . )
but glad to communicate with the outsieworld .
— you are right there , nosey flynn said .
— you make good use of the name , john eglinton allowed .
— they would not gieanything on them , she said .
buy a pair .
mrs breen : glory alie you do look a holy show !
there all the tiewithout you : and ever shall be , world without end .
something to eat ?
always at home at dinnertie
holes in my socks .
same old dingdong always .
drving before it a loose drift of rubble , fanshoals of fishes , silly shells .
first watch : regiet .
— who may he be ?
aha !
loose sand and shellgrit crusted her bare feet .
but i , entelechy , form of forms , am i by memory because under everchanging forms .
p s so lonely blooming .
he was so kind and holy and often and often she thought and thought could she work a ruched teacosy with embroieed floral design for him as a present or a clock but they had a clock she notie on the mantelpiece whieand gold with a canarybird that came out of a little house to tell the tiethe day she went there about the flowers for the forty hours ’ adoration because it was hard to know what sort of a present to gieor perhaps an album of illuminated views of dublin or some place .
at the foot of the ladder buck mulligan asked : — did you bring the key ?
zoe : go abroad and love a foreign lady .
this very instant .
kidneys were in his mind as he moved about the kitchen softly , righting her breakfast things on the humpy tray .
for me this .
gassy thing that cie : binding too .
so we went around by the liehall barracks and the back of the courthouse talking of one thing or another .
bloom ungyved his crisscrossed hands and with slack fingers plucked the slender catgut thong .
is that a fact ?
<NUMBER> . e2 .
elizabethan london lay as far from statford as corrupt paris lies from virgin dublin .
henry menton , solr , martin cunningham , john power , eatondph <NUMBER> / 8 ador dorador douradora_ ( must be where he called monks the dayfather about keyes ’ s ad ) _thomas kernan , simon dedalus , stphen dedalus b
father conmee blessed him in the sun for his purse held , he knew , one silver crown .
ah .
i was just thinking of it when that poor old creature came in .
have that in your nose in the dark , whiff of stale boose .
) _ ho ho ho ho .
talk .
no great hurry .
i fell foul of him one evening , i remember , at bowls .
ignatius loyola , make haste to help me !
— - there he is again , says joe .
maybe the women ’ s fault also .
bloom : _ ( shuddering , shrinking , joins his hands : with hangdog mien .
a vertical piano ( cadby ) with exposed keyboard , its closed coffin supporting a pair of long yellow ladies ’ gloves and an emerald ashtray containing four consumed matches , a partly consumed cigarette and two discoloured ends of cigarettes , its musicrest supporting the music in the key of g natural for voieand piano of _love ’ s old sweet song_ ( words by g clifton bingham , composed by j l molloy , sung by madam antoiete strling ) open at the last page with the final indications _ad libitum , forte_ , pedal , _animato_ , sustaie pedal , _ritirando_ , close .
) _ come , ducky dear , i want a word with you , darling , just to administer correction .
mrpower said , wiping his wet eyes with his fingers .
the reason he mentioned the fact was that a lot of those polieen , whom he cordially dislie , were admittedly unscrupulous in the servieof the crown and , as mrbloom put it , recalling a case or two in the a division in clanbrassil street , prepared to swear a hole through a ten gallon pot .
to tell the truth he was mean in fortunes and for the most part hankered about the coffeehouses and low taverns with crimps , ostlers , bookies , paul ’ s men , runners , flatcaps , waistcoateers , ladies of the bagnio and other rogues of the game or with a chanceable catchpole or a tipstaff often at nights till broad day of whom he picked up between his sackpossets much loose gossip .
looking up from the back garden .
o ’ madden burke : free fox in a free henroost .
i am big with child .
restless .
password .
for another : a constable off duty cuddling her in eccles ’ lane .
his horse ’ s hoofs clattering after us down abbey street .
well , i have .
he stood in the porch and watched the laggard hurry towards the scrappy field where sharp voie were in strie
zoe : _ ( in sudden sulks .
_ ( he plays pussy fourcorners with ragged boys and girls .
— that will do , father cowley said , nodding also .
as sure as we are standing here the jew merchants are already at their work of destruction .
famished ghosts .
o , wrap up meat , parcels : various uses , thousand and one things .
revrently look at her as she reclie there with the motherlight in her eyes , that longing hunger for baby fingers ( a pretty sight it is to see ) , in the first bloom of her new motherhood , breathing a siet prayer of thanksgiving to one above , the uniesal husband .
he put his boot on what he had spat , wiping his sole along it , and bent , showing a rawskinned crown , scantily haie .
the old woman asked .
o yes , w remember your epiphanies written on green oval leaves , deeply deep , copies to be sent if you died to all the great libraries of the world , including alexandria ?
it ’ s ages since i you are looking splendid .
it is fate .
the priest came down from the altar , holding the thing out from him , and he and the massboy answered each other in latin .
he looked in stphen ’ s face as he spoke .
do you know that the orange lodges agitated for repeal of the union twenty years before o ’ connell did or before the prelates of your communion denounced him as a demagogue ?
_lacaus esant taratara_ .
how had he attempted to remedy this state of comparatieignorance ?
all events brought grist to his mill .
haroun al raschid .
houses , lie of houses , streets , mie of pavements , pieup bricks , stones .
) _ who profaned our siet shade ?
foodheated faces , sweating helmets , patting their truncheons .
softly .
yes , it is .
fellow hid behind a door , come up behind him .
my ashplant will float away .
did you leave anything on the fie
to keep it up .
the twins were now playing in the most approved brotherly fashion till at last master jacky who was really as bold as brass there was no getting behind that delieately kicked the ball as hard as ever he could down towards the seaweedy rocks .
— our friend bloom turned in handy that night , mrdedalus said .
pat served , uncovered dishes .
contentions would appear to prove him pretty badly addicted runs dietly counter to accepted scientific methods .
must be abstemious to sing .
all that the hand says when you touch .
— he took umbrage at something or other , that muchinjured but on the whole eventempered person declared , i let slip .
you got me ?
he said .
do right to hide them .
special quick excursion trains and upholstered charabancs had been provie for the comfort of our country cousins of whom there were large contingents .
have you the ?
in rue monsieur le - prince i thought it .
i know it myself .
khaki hamlets do not hesitate to shoot .
death ’ s number .
i feel so sad .
apply for the chiltern hundreds and retieinto public lie
spartans gnash molars
. la tua pace . che parlar ti piace mentre che il vento , come fa , si tace .
down the edge of his _freeman_ baton ranged bloom ’ s , your other eye , scanning for where did i see that .
something quieordinary .
— the greatest disgrace to have in the family , mrpower added .
they offer to come over here .
i bear a respectable character and was four months in my last place .
on her flower frowning miss douce said : — most aggravating that young brat is .
his mouth continued to twitch unspeaking in nervous curls of disdain .
shindy in wellknown restaurant — good day , sir , stphen answered blushing .
tell him a tale of woe about arrears of rent and a sick wieand a squad of kids and , faith , he will dissolve in tears on the bench .
what anagrams had he made on his name in youth ?
salute !
the agony in the closet .
winkle : cockles and periwinkles .
— the play begins .
i have sixteen years of black slave labour behind me .
lord , they are weary ; and , whispered to , they sigh .
— i fancy , stphen said as he ate , it did not exist in or out of the mabinogion .
knows as much about it as my coachman .
i too was just .
good health , citie .
that is why the speech ( his lean unlovely english ) is always turned elsewhere , backward .
for only her he waie .
yet more bloom stretched his string .
he had spoken himself into boldness .
l bloom , who met with a mie reception of applause and hisses , having espoused the negatiethe vocalist chairman brought the discussion to a close , in response to repeated requests and hearty plaudits from all parts of a bumper house , by a remarkably noteworthy rendering of the immortal thomas osborne davis ’ evergreen verses ( happily too familiar to need recalling here ) _a nation once again_ in the execution of which the veteran patriot champion may be said without fear of contradiction to have fairly excelled himself .
horse drooping .
the signal for prayer was then promptly gie by megaphone and in an instant all heads were bared , the commendatore ’ s patriarchal sombrero , which has been in the possession of his family since the revolution of rienzi , being removed by his medical advie in attendance , drpippi .
_à la vôtre_ !
— and here ’ s himself and pepper on him , nosey flynn said .
a poet , yes , but an englishman too .
) _ there .
boccaccio ’ s calandrino was the first and last man who felt himself with child .
crooked skirt swinging , whack by .
— _ . private arthur chace for fowl murder of jessie tilsit in pentonville prison and i was assistant when . _ — jesus , says i
_de mortuis nil nisi prius_ .
— sad occasions , mrkernan began poliey .
sweep !
one can see him , a model schoolboy with his diploma under his arm .
— better ask tom kernan , mrdedalus said .
look under the bed for what ’ s not there .
who left his nutquesting classmates to seek our shade ?
the colours were done something lovely .
martin could wind a sappyhead liethat round his little finger , without his seeing it .
martha , the bath , funeral , house of keyes , museum with those goddesses , dedalus ’ song .
wish they had sing more .
rome boose for the bloom toff .
_ ( far out in the bay between baie and kish lights the_ erings king _sails , sending a broadening plume of coalsmoke from her funnel towards the land .
dolor !
it ’ s the whole pie with jam in .
big brutes of oceangoing steamers floundering along in the dark , lowing out like seacows .
heavy greasy smell there always is in those works .
no .
some laughed again : mirthless but with meaning .
wait till i show you .
mastiansky and citron approach in gaberdie , wearing long earlocks .
crooked as a ram ’ s horn .
glue em well .
nell gwynn , mrbracegirdle , maud branscombe .
there .
by the sandwichbell in screening shadow lydia , her bronze and rose , a lady ’ s grace , gave and withheld : as in cool glaucous _eau de nil_ mina to tankards two her pinnacles of gold .
what ’ s that , mro ’ rourke ?
he nodded to himself as he drew off his trousers and stood up , saying triey : — redheaded women buck liegoats .
he said .
shakes .
they caught up on the others and walked abreast .
buck mulligan said .
have you brought a bottle ?
i have just to copy the end .
did he depict the scene verbally for his guest to see ?
) _ stephen : a tie tie and half a tie
_o si , certo ! _ sell your soul for that , do , dyed rags pinned round a squaw .
mrm ’ guinness , stately , silverhaie , bowed to father conmee from the farther footpath along which she saie .
aimless he chose with agitated aim , bald pat attending , a table near the door .
of course he is dead .
girl touched it .
before the huge high door of the irish house of parliament a flock of piens flew .
meyerbeer .
usual blarney .
under a row of fiecoie spring housebells a curvilier rope , stretched between two holdfasts athwart across the recess besiethe chimney pier , from which hung four smallsie square handkerchiefs folded unattached consecutiey in adjacent rectangles and one pair of ladies ’ grey hose with lisle suspender tops and feet in their habitual position clamped by three erect wooden pegs two at their outer extremities and the third at their point of junction .
the incumbent they called him .
) _ myles crawford : _ ( his cock ’ s wattles wagging .
) _ it was gerald converted me to be a true corsetlover when i was female impersonator in the high school play _vieversa_ .
bloom .
— that was exceedingly naughty of you , mrdedalus told her and pressed her hand indulgently .
turns milk , makes fiddlestrings snap .
— uncle richie , really . — sit down or by the law harry i will knock you down .
crawford will follow .
underground communication .
postoffie
seeing her home after practie
south sieanyhow .
stephen : _ ( triumphalie . )
breathe it deep into thee .
on the other hand he had a distinct and painful recollection they paid his wie madam marion tweedy who had been promietly associated with it at one tie a very modest remuneration indeed for her pianoplaying .
shouldering their bags they trudged , the red egyptians .
bottle with story of a treasure in it , thrown from a wreck .
— they are all barbers , says he , from the black country that would hang their own fathers for fiequid down and travelling expenses .
says joe .
safe !
general information about project gutenberg tm electronic works profssor michael s hart was the originator of the project gutenberg tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared with anyone .
imperthnthn thnthnthn .
through spaces smaller than red globules of man ’ s blood they creepycrawl after blake ’ s buttocks into eternity of which this vegetable world is but a shadow .
red influences lupus .
but hear .
three days !
she has large pendant beryl eardrops .
he cried .
mrs breen : _ ( to bloom .
do not let see .
the clock was on the stroke of twelve .
if he consies it important it will go in .
puke it out !
what ?
mrdedalus , famous father , laid by his dry filled pie
) _ there ’ s a good girly now .
molly often told me feel things a ton weight .
smells of men .
remember pasiphae for whose lust my grandoldgrossfather made the first confessionbox .
to which cold douche referring to downfall and so on the keeper concurred but nevertheless held to his main view .
lenehan said to all : — siece !
look out for squalls .
he said .
had enough of it .
ought not to have gie that child an empty teat to suck .
bloom : _ ( her eyes upturned in the sign of admiration , closing , yaps .
where are we going ?
the young may moon she ’ s beaming , love .
i could not phone .
walking by doran ’ s publichouse he slid his hand between his waistcoat and trousers and , pulling asiehis shirt gently , felt a slack fold of his belly .
spanishy eyes .
gleaming silks , petticoats on slim brass rails , rays of flat silk stockings .
crush , crack , crick , crick .
the jejune jesuit !
with her weak blood and wheysour milk she had fed him and hid from sight of others his swaddling bands .
i am in a grave predicament .
euge ! _ pretending to speak broken english as you dragged your valie porter threepence , across the slimy pier at newhaven .
rrrrrr .
and cissy told him too that billy winks was coming and that baby was to go deedaw and baby looked just too ducky , laughing up out of his gleeful eyes , and cissy poked him liethat out of fun in his wee fat tummy and baby , without as much as by your leave , sent up his compliets to all and sundry on to his brandnew dribbling bib .
) _ no more .
for me !
the muchtreasured and intricately embroieed ancient irish facecloth attributed to solomon of drma and manus tomaltach og macdonogh , authors of the book of ballymote , was then carefully produced and called forth prolonged admiration .
was the narration otherwieunaltered by modifications ?
zoe : the devil is in that door .
the ball bobbed unheeded on the wake of swells , floated under by the bridgepiers .
rank heresy for them .
but lady maxwell had come .
o , i shall expie
dr punch costello : the _fetor judaicus_ is most perceptible .
read with their fingers .
) _ the torchbearers : hooray !
women .
voices : shes faithfultheman .
heard he then in that clap the voieof the god bringforth or , what calmer said , a hubbub of phenomenon ?
is that ? .
i do not answer for what you may have lost .
his eyes open wiein vision stared sternly across the sunbeam in which he halted .
you little expected me but i have come to stay and make a fresh start .
a nobody , two pair back and passages , at seven shillings a week , and he covered with all kinds of breastplates bidding defiance to the world .
lydia douce : _ ( her mouth opening .
— she was a daughter of . — daughter of the regiet .
) _ davy stephens : _messenger of the sacred heart_ and _evening telegraph_ with saint patrick ’ s day supplement .
_ ( bloom takes j j o ’ molloy ’ s hand and raie it to his lips .
wait a second .
look at the woebegone walk of him .
— i know , sir .
charnelhouses .
oldfashioned way he used to bow molly off the platform .
i do not want to see my country fall into the hands of german jews either .
prepare to receiesoup .
so he told terry to bring some water for the dog and , gob , you could hear him lapping it up a mieoff .
i never told her .
ben dollard frowned and , making suddenly a chanter ’ s mouth , gave forth a deep note .
find out what they imagiethey know .
roll of bensoulbenjamin rolled to the quiey loveshiey roofpanes .
whose mother is beastly dead .
but what does shakespeare say ?
florry : i will .
skin the - goat , assuming he was he , evietly with an axe to grind , was airing his grievances in a forcible feeble philippic anent the natural resources of ireland or something of that sort which he descrie in his lengthy dissertation as the richest country bar none on the face of god ’ s earth , far and away superior to england , with coal in large quantities , six million pounds worth of pork exported every year , ten millions between butter and eggs and all the riches draie out of it by england levying taxes on the poor people that paid through the nose always and gobbling up the best meat in the market and a lot more surplus steam in the same vein .
mary , martha .
onlookers see most of the game .
) _ my hero god !
an hour ago i was passing there .
can you give us a good one for the gold cup ?
i , bous stphanoumenos , bullockbefriending bard , am lord and gie of their lie
lynch : i hope you gave the good father a penance .
but , o papli , how old you have grown !
and after : thinking alone .
more women than men in the world .
you prayed to the blessed virgin that you might not have a red nose .
wait for her somewhere for ever .
the preordaie frangibility of the hymen : the presupposed intangibility of the thing in itself : the incongruity and disproportion between the selfprolonging tension of the thing proposed to be done and the selfabbreviating relaxation of the thing done : the fallaciously inferred debility of the female : the muscularity of the male : the variations of ethical codes : the natural grammatical transition by inversion involving no alteration of sense of an aorist preterite proposition ( parsed as masculiesubject , monosyllabic onomatopoeic transitieverb with diet feminieobject ) from the actievoieinto its correlatieaorist preterieproposition ( parsed as feminine subject , auxiliary verb and quasimonosyllabic onomatopoeic past participle with complementary masculieagent ) in the passievoie the continued product of seminators by generation : the continual production of semen by distillation : the futility of triumph or protest or vindication : the inanity of extolled virtue : the lethargy of nescient matter : the apathy of the stars .
you look liea fellow that had lost a bob and found a tanner .
they go , they come .
by god they did right to keep the women out of it .
buck mulligan sat down to unlace his boots .
traie by owner .
liety and exaltation of our holy mother the church .
commendatore beninobenone having been extricated from underneath the presietial armchair , it was explaie by his legal advie avvocato pagamimi that the various articles secreted in his thirtytwo pockets had been abstracted by him during the affray from the pockets of his junior colleagues in the hope of bringing them to their senses .
yes , i must .
— _ex quibus_ , stphen mumbled in a noncommittal accent , their two or four eyes conversing , _christus_ or bloom his name is or after all any other , _secundum carnem_ .
lie .
— said the ace of spades was walking up the stairs .
bello : well , i am not .
just what you say .
— got the horn or what ?
gieus that biscuitbox here .
— i will take a stone ginger , bantam lyons said .
ought to be places for women .
<NUMBER> . e9 .
feathered his nest well anyhow .
) _ my centre of gravity is displaced .
bawd and butcher were the words .
a sleepy soft grunt answered : — mn .
please keep off the grass .
stpped in citron ’ s saint kevings parade .
wail , banba , with your wind : and wail , o ocean , with your whirlwind .
self which it itself was ieuctably preconditioned to become .
— why , the sailor said , shifting his partially chewed plug .
then the twelve brothers , jacob ’ s sons .
same here .
_ ( they rustle , flutter upon his garments , alight , bright giddy flecks , silvery sequins .
yet they say , who was it told me , there is no carnal .
she waved about her outspread _independent , _ searching , the lord lieutenant , her pinnacles of hair slowmoving , lord lieuten .
too many drugs spoil the broth .
miss douce said , sighed above her jumping rose .
— two , corny kelleher said .
first i saw .
— who knows ?
ssh !
tie i feel now .
ben dollard : pansies ?
a glow leaps in the south beyond the seaward reaches of the rie .
seedy cuss in the richmond ?
you would not do a less thing .
sir leopold heard on the upfloor cry on high and he wondered what cry that it was whether of child or woman and i marvel , said he , that it be not come or now .
hynes shook his head .
— ay , says joe .
) _ he aint half balmy .
music .
you know , dedalus , you have the real oxford manner .
* * * miss dunne hid the capel street library copy of _the woman in whie far back in her drawer and rolled a sheet of gaudy notepaper into her typewrie .
quicker .
women will pay a lot of heed , i do not think .
he curled them between his palms at whie and swallowed them softly .
jimmy henry made a grimace and lifted his left foot .
cream .
_was du verlachst wirst du noch dienen . _ brood of mockers : photius , pseudomalachi , johann most .
well but that fellow would lose his job then ?
devil in that picture of sinner ’ s death showing him a woman .
the note of swinburne , of all poets , the white death and the ruddy birth .
there is plenty of her visible to the naked eye .
the foreman , without answering , scribbled press on a corner of the sheet and made a sign to a typesetter .
hair braie over : shell with seaweed .
insert long round end .
back out you get the knie
bella : _ ( loudly .
— is not it awfully good ?
never on the spot when wanted but in quiet parts of the city , pembroke road for example , the guardians of the law were well in eviece , the obvious reason being they were paid to protect the upper classes .
must be selling off some old furniture .
— ay , says i
mead of our fathers for the _übermensch . _ dittoh .
celery sauce .
bald he was and a millionaie _maestro di color che sanno_ .
me in his eyes .
by heaven , theodore purefoy , thou hast done a doughty deed and no botch !
from the curbstone he darted a keen glance through the door of the postoffie
the nymph : _ ( with a cry flees from him unveie , her plaster cast cracking , a cloud of stench escaping from the cracks .
why molly lie opoponax .
miss douce huffed and snorted down her nostrils that quieed imperthnthn liea snout in quest .
brightly the keys , all twinkling , linked , all harpsichording , called to a voieto sing the strain of dewy morn , of youth , of love ’ s leavetaking , lies , love ’ s morn .
the quaker librarian asked .
but stun myself too in the blow .
_ ( he holds out a forefinger .
virag : _ ( prompts in a pig ’ s whisper .
conversely the nasal and frontal formation was derie in a diet line of liege which , though interrupted , would continue at distant intervals to more distant intervals to its most distant intervals .
forth from the skirt of his coat mrdedalus brought pouch and pie
no one is anything .
bloom : _ ( pawing the heather abjectly .
white slip of paper .
bosom i saw , both full , throat warbling .
he asked .
bed : ed .
ah !
liedown a coalshoot .
keep , keep , keep to the right .
they passed dan lowry ’ s musichall where marie kendall , charming soubrette , smie on them from a poster a dauby smie
) _ i thought so .
last but not least .
might be the one bit me , come back to see .
my poor little pres : p . o . two and six .
) _ lynch : _ ( laughing , slaps kitty behind twie
inspiration of genius .
jingle jingle jaunted jingling .
— here , mrdedalus said , handing her two pennies .
dollard and cowley still urged the lingering singer out with it .
christ or pilate ?
the nymph : _ ( her fingers in her ears .
must carry a paper goblet next tiei go to the trottingmatches .
they sometie feel what a person is .
bella : what ?
nie if a niegirl did it .
— i saved the situation , ben , i think .
love among the tombstones .
thank you .
— of what then ?
they charge !
salivation is insufficient , the patellar reflex intermittent .
) _ he employs a mechanical devieto frustrate the sacred ends of nature .
) _ ow !
however in another pocket he came across what he surmie in the dark were pennies , erroneously however , as it turned out .
there too , opposieto him , was lynch whose countenance bore already the stigmata of early depravity and premature wisdom .
heigho !
allee samee dis bunch .
the drain , you mean .
no ?
a roar .
) _ my body .
profssor machugh nodded .
miss douce turned to her tea asie
yet sometie they repent too late .
had to be .
— first , our little financial settlement , he said .
one , leaving his mates , walked slowly on with shouldered weapon , its blade blueglancing .
i had it examie by a botanical expert and elicie the information that it was a blossom of the homegrown potato plant purloie from a forcingcase of the model farm .
there he tilted his hatbrim to gieshade to his eyes and leaned against the doorcase , looking idly out .
) _ henry : _ ( in a low dulcet voie touching the strings of his guitar .
butchers , for instance : they get lieraw beefsteaks .
j j o ’ molloy offered his case to myles crawford .
do you know what he did last night ?
avowal .
never speaking .
stnd us a drink itself .
liethat something .
gerald molloy , d d ; the rev .
i am , he resumed with dramatic force , as good an irishman as that rude person i told you about at the outset and i want to see everyone , concluded he , all creeds and classes _pro rata_ having a comfortable tidysie income , in no niggard fashion either , something in the neighbourhood of £ <NUMBER> per annum .
no one .
dolly gray : _ ( from her balcony waves her handkerchief , giving the sign of the heroieof jericho .
gold asked more eagerly .
the ashplant marks his strie
roygbiv vance taught us : red , orange , yellow , green , blue , indigo , violet .
asquat on the cuckstool he folded out his paper , turning its pages over on his bared knees .
lieto see her again in that .
bloom : my spies a bit limp .
butchers ’ buckets wobbly lights .
how much would that tot to off the porter in the month ?
_ — non intres in judicium cum servo tuo , domie_ makes them feel more important to be prayed over in latin .
_prepare to meet your god_ , says he .
the vowels the semieand the saxon know not .
father john conmee stepped into the dollymount tram on newcomen bridge .
under what guidance , following what signs ?
— you must have seen a fair share of the world , the keeper remarked , leaning on the counter .
save china ’ s millions .
so i carried the boat of incense then at clongowes .
) _ o , i know what you are hinting at now !
he frowns a little just as this young man does now with a perhaps too conscious enjoyment of the danger but must needs glance at whie towards where his mother watches from the _piazzetta_ giving upon the flowerclose with a faint shadow of remoteness or of reproach ( _alles vergängliche_ ) in her glad look .
tap .
is that boylan well off ?
shabby genteel .
bring strkey .
— that was will ’ s way , john eglinton defended .
queer the whole atmosphere of the .
* * * opposieruggy o ’ donohoe ’ s master patrick aloysius dignam , pawing the pound and a half of mangan ’ s , late fehrenbach ’ s , porksteaks he had been sent for , went along warm wicklow street dawdling .
it is now a month since dear henry fled to his home up above in the sky whiehis family weeps and mourns his loss hoping some day to meet him on high .
get a light snack in davy byrne ’ s .
stpped .
milly delighted with molly ’ s new blouse .
farewell .
o , that ’ s all right .
_nos omnes bieimus viridum toxicum diabolus capiat posterioria nostria_ .
i am other i now .
says john wyse .
go home to nie bread and milky and say night prayers with the kiddies .
a cork and bottle .
lenehan in yachtsman ’ s cap and whieshoes officiously detaches a long hair from blazes boylan ’ s coat shoulder .
ham and his descendants musterred and bred there .
— they sinned against the light , mrdeasy said gravely .
bloom : _ ( glances sharply at the man .
— they say a man who does it is a coward , mrdedalus said .
the earth .
was it a celestial phenomenon ?
where ’ s punch ?
tieenough yet .
) _ trinity medicals .
they love reading about it .
and ristori in vienna .
— quieso , mrbloom dittoed .
bloom : _ ( cowed .
but one should be charitable .
rags and bones at midnight .
for gerty had her dreams that no one knew of .
thou sawest thy america , thy lieask , and didst charge to cover liethe transpontiebison .
a e : what does that mean ?
looks so forlorn .
must be two of em .
_benedicat vos omnipotens deus , pater et filius_ .
have you the ?
i am getting on niey in the dark .
they passed from behind mrbloom along the curbstone .
word known to all men .
the gravediggers touched their caps .
you will be taught the error of your ways .
and if ever after he dared to presume she could giehim one look of measured scorn that would make him shrie up on the spot .
eh .
niekind of evening feeling .
will lift your tschink with tschunk .
yes , sir .
hell , blast ye !
a goat .
must be an infernal lot of bad gas round the place .
he ’ s dead nuts on that .
stll there ’ s destiny in it , falling in love .
she was a nieold bag of tricks .
are you from the west , sir ?
gum , i am jiggered .
how did he elucidate the mystery of an invisible attractieperson , his wiemarion ( molly ) bloom , denoted by a visible splendid sign , a lamp ?
— he ’ s english , buck mulligan said , and he thinks we ought to speak irish in ireland .
_kyrios ! _ shining word !
at each slow satiny heaving bosom ’ s wave ( her heaving embon ) red rose rose slowly sank red rose .
coming out of her shell .
drpping down lock by lock to dublin .
in what dietions did listener and narrator lie ?
catalogue these books .
— the blessing of god and mary and patrick on you , says the citie .
huguenot .
many errors , many failures but not the one sin .
fol .
— back to barracks !
the echo : fool !
some chap with a dose burning him .
analogous scenes are occasionally , if not often , met with .
— and pontius pilate is its prophet , professor machugh responded .
and the saviour was a jew and his father was a jew .
at this pertiet suggestion mrbloom , to change the subject , looked down but in a quandary , as he could not tell exactly what construction to put on belongs to which sounded rather a far cry .
— yes .
lose your customers that way .
what a lark !
you are down and out and do not you forget it , old bean .
gob , he had his mouth half way down the tumbler already .
the father and the son ie .
why did he come ?
he turned , bounded back , came nearer , trotted on twinkling shanks .
— onehandled adulterer , he said smiling grimly .
why did he not leave her his best bed if he wished her to snore away the rest of her nights in peace ?
) _ for why should the dainty scented jewelled hand , the hand that rules . ?
one body .
why did i ?
too much mystery busies in it .
the murderer ’ s image in the eye of the murdered .
i gave you mementos , smart emerald garters far above your station .
aham !
something detectieread off blottingpad .
— most pertiet question , the professor said between his chews .
demesne situate in the townland of rosenallis , barony of tinnahinch .
featherbed mountain .
these heavy sands are language tieand wind have silted here .
we should not now combine a norse saga with an excerpt from a novel by george meredith .
i am warm , dark , open .
shuttered , tenantless , unweeded garden .
callous : all for his own gut .
— i never broach the subject , davy byrne said humanely , if i see a gentleman is in trouble that way .
he is about to have a baby .
— m ’ intosh , hynes said scribbling .
molly wanting to do it at the window .
we gave our best blood to france and spain , the wild geese .
begob i saw there was trouble coming .
an outburst of cheering .
when love absorbs .
yea , turtledove her .
the other trotting round with a fare .
just down there in conway ’ s we were .
the apparitions of knock and lourdes .
half twelve .
even so did they come and set them , those willing nymphs , the undying sisters .
and so forth and so on .
not true .
did not you see him look at his watch ?
_ ( he fumbles again in his pocket and draws out a handful of coins .
respect .
comes to a big thing in a year .
— l , mrbloom said .
o by the by that lotion .
but tommy said he wanted the ball and edy told him no that baby was playing with the ball and if he took it there had be wigs on the green but tommy said it was his ball and he wanted his ball and he pranced on the ground , if you please .
better value that for the money .
_drck ! _ _ ( henry flower combs his moustache and beard rapidly with a pocketcomb and gie a cow ’ s lick to his hair .
henry flower esq , c / o p o westland row , city .
hockey at ten , sir .
a siet contemplation : a tentatievelation : a gradual abasement : a solicitous aversion : a proximate erection .
that ’ s the great empiethey boast about of drudges and whipped serfs .
miey !
there ’ s a little watch up there on the roof of the bank to test those glasses by .
his voiehad a cultured ring in it and though he spoke in measured accents there was a suspicion of a quie in the mellow tones .
nux vom . , _ <NUMBER> minims _extr .
artillery .
money i have not .
_ ( he indicates vaguely lynch and bloom .
jake crane , creole sue , dove campbell , abe kirschner , do your coughing with your mouths shut .
— _but alas , ’ twas idle dreaming_ . glorious tone he has still .
remember that till their dying day .
what ’ s this ?
the first newsboy came pattering down the stairs at their heels and rushed out into the street , yelling : — racing special !
he does not hear it .
) _ the hue and cry : _ ( helterskelterpelterwelter .
proudly walking .
the lights change , glow , fade gold rosy violet .
— come on , simon .
old now .
a false priest ’ s servant bade him welcome .
we want no more strangers in our house .
how the head centre got away , authentic version .
the funeral is today .
_ ( slily .
she might be here with a ribbon round her neck and do the other thing all the same on the sly .
he asked roguishly .
as they drove along nassau street his excellency drew the attention of his bowing consort to the programme of music which was being discoursed in college park .
maledicity !
says joe .
) _ honourable wounds !
a wieof shame , lust , blood exudes , strangely murmuring .
deep in leinster street by trinity ’ s postern a loyal king ’ s man , hornblower , touched his tallyho cap .
this was so happy a conceit that it renewed the storm of mirth and threw the whole room into the most violent agitations of delight .
meh .
a look around .
) _ bello : _ ( squats with a grunt on bloom ’ s upturned face , puffing cigarsmoke , nursing a fat leg .
we will bury you in our shrubbery jakes where you will be dead and dirty with old cuck cohen , my stepnephew i married , the bloody old gouty procurator and sodomiewith a crick in his neck , and my other ten or eleven husbands , whatever the buggers ’ names were , suffocated in the one cesspool .
do they know what they cart out here every day ?
muscular christian .
i will get those bags cleared away from the windows .
— clamn dever , lenehan said to mro ’ madden burke .
yes .
— the king of spaings daughter , stphen answered , adding something or other rather muddled about farewell and adieu to you spanish onions and the first land called the deadman and from ramhead to scilly was so and so many .
— cochrane and halliday are on the same sie sir , stphen said .
same old six and eightpence .
— from the rock of gibraltar . all the way .
hates sewing .
i dreamt of a watermelon .
music they wanted .
saltwhiecrumbling mush of corpse : smell , taste lieraw whieturnips .
they have no .
come on , you triple extract of infamy !
shall not go afasting in my house i warrant me .
wielocked up at home , skeleton in the cupboard .
about that present tieyoung stphen filled all cups that stood empty so as there remaie but little mo if the prudenter had not shadowed their approach from him that still plied it very busily who , praying for the intentions of the sovereign pontiff , he gave them for a pledge the vicar of christ which also as he said is vicar of bray .
good job i let off there behind the wall coming out of dignam ’ s .
you are looking splendid .
what was he saying ?
he laid the dry snot picked from his nostril on a ledge of rock , carefully .
as i am .
— it ’ s tiefor you , she said .
all my babies , she said .
that awful cramp in lad lane .
neither .
keep our flag flying !
no , just right .
and , if i do not greatly mistake she was spanish too .
similarly ?
that will be all right .
the crone makes back for her lair , swaying her lamp .
he saw their speeds , backing king ’ s colours , and shouted with the shouts of vanished crowds .
it seemed to father conmee a pity that they should all be lost , a waste , if one might say .
like flowers .
might manage a sketch .
an exquisiedulcet epithalame of most mollificatiesuadency for juvenie amatory whom the odorieous flambeaus of the paranymphs have escorted to the quadrupedal proscenium of connubial communion .
did he find the problems of the inhabitability of the planets and their satellie by a race , gie in species , and of the possible social and moral redemption of said race by a redeemer , easier of solution ?
he ’ s going to say a word to long john to get him to take those two men off .
far be it from candour to violate the bedchamber of a respectable lady , the daughter of a gallant major , or to cast the most distant reflections upon her virtue but if he challenges attention there ( as it was indeed highly his interest not to have done ) then be it so .
two .
wait .
it restores .
madam , excuse me .
— does he ?
bloom : _ ( embraces john howard parnell .
— i have conceie a play for the mummers , he said solemnly .
i never see the liesince i was born .
eh , come here till i stiffen it for you .
he have got the chink _ad lib_ .
from clergyman , british naval offie , wellknown author , city man , hospital nurse , lady , mother of fie absentminded beggar .
martin cunningham could work a pass for the gaiety .
— old troy , says i , was in the force .
— do you wish me to tell you ?
— come , kinch .
why was the chant arrested at the conclusion of this first distich ?
curious types .
curlycues of chords .
) _ o , it must be liethe scent of geraniums and lovely peaches !
mulveys was the first when i was in bed that morning and mrrubio brought it in with the coffee she stood there standing when i asked her to hand me and i pointing at them i couldnt think of the word a hairpin to open it with ah horquilla disobliging old thing and it staring her in the face with her switch of false hair on her and vain about her appearance ugly as she was near <NUMBER> or a <NUMBER> her face a mass of wrinkles with all her religion domiering because she never could get over the atlantic fleet coming in half the ships of the world and the union jack flying with all her carabieos because <NUMBER> drunken english sailors took all the rock from them and because i didnt run into mass often enough in santa maria to please her with her shawl up on her except when there was a marriage on with all her miracles of the saints and her black blessed virgin with the silver dress and the sun dancing <NUMBER> tie on easter sunday morning and when the priest was going by with the bell bringing the vatican to the dying blessing herself for his majestad an admie he signed it i near jumped out of my skin i wanted to pick him up when i saw him following me along the calle real in the shop window then he tipped me just in passing but i never thought hed wriemaking an appointment i had it insiemy petticoat bodieall day reading it up in every hole and corner whiefather was up at the drill instructing to find out by the handwriting or the language of stamps singing i remember shall i wear a whierose and i wanted to put on the old stupid clock to near the tiehe was the first man kissed me under the moorish wall my sweetheart when a boy it never entered my head what kissing meant till he put his tongue in my mouth his mouth was sweetlieyoung i put my knee up to him a few tie to learn the way what did i tell him i was engaged for for fun to the son of a spanish nobleman named don miguel de la flora and he believed me that i was to be married to him in <NUMBER> years tietheres many a true word spoken in jest there is a flower that bloometh a few things i told him true about myself just for him to be imagining the spanish girls he didnt liei suppose one of them wouldnt have him i got him excie he crushed all the flowers on my bosom he brought me he couldnt count the pesetas and the perragordas till i taught him cappoquin he came from he said on the black water but it was too short then the day before he left may yes it was may when the infant king of spain was born im always liethat in the spring id liea new fellow every year up on the tiptop under the rockgun near oharas tower i told him it was struck by lightning and all about the old barbary apes they sent to clapham without a tail careering all over the show on each others back mrrubio said she was a regular old rock scorpion robbing the chickens out of inces farm and throw stones at you if you went anear he was looking at me i had that whieblouse on open in the front to encourage him as much as i could without too openly they were just beginning to be plump i said i was tie we lay over the firtree cove a wild place i suppose it must be the highest rock in existence the galleries and casemates and those frightful rocks and saint michaels cave with the icicles or whatever they call them hanging down and ladders all the mud plotching my boots im sure thats the way down the monkeys go under the sea to africa when they die the ships out far liechips that was the malta boat passing yes the sea and the sky you could do what you lie lie there for ever he caressed them outsiethey love doing that its the roundness there i was leaning over him with my whierietraw hat to take the newness out of it the left sieof my face the best my blouse open for his last day transparent kind of shirt he had i could see his chest pink he wanted to touch miewith his for a moment but i wouldnt let him he was awfully put out first for fear you never know consumption or leave me with a child embarazada that old servant ines told me that one drop even if it got into you at all after i tried with the banana but i was afraid it might break and get lost up in me somewhere because they once took something down out of a woman that was up there for years covered with liealts theyre all mad to get in there where they come out of youd think they could never go far enough up and then theyre done with you in a way till the next tieyes because theres a wonderful feeling there so tender all the tiehow did we finish it off yes o yes i pulled him off into my handkerchief pretending not to be excie but i opened my legs i wouldnt let him touch me insiemy petticoat because i had a skirt opening up the siei tormented the lieout of him first tickling him i loved rousing that dog in the hotel rrrsssstt awokwokawok his eyes shut and a bird flying below us he was shy all the same i lie him liethat moaning i made him blush a little when i got over him that way when i unbuttoned him and took his out and drew back the skin it had a kind of eye in it theyre all buttons men down the middle on the wrong sieof them molly darling he called me what was his name jack joe harry mulvey was it yes i think a lieutenant he was rather fair he had a laughing kind of a voieso i went round to the whatyoucallit everything was whatyoucallit moustache had he he said hed come back lord its just lieyesterday to me and if i was married hed do it to me and i promie him yes faithfully id let him block me now flying perhaps hes dead or killed or a captain or admiral its nearly <NUMBER> years if i said firtree cove he would if he came up behind me and put his hands over my eyes to guess who i might recogniehim hes young still about <NUMBER> perhaps hes married some girl on the black water and is quiechanged they all do they havent half the character a woman has she little knows what i did with her beloved husband before he ever dreamt of her in broad daylight too in the sight of the whole world you might say they could have put an article about it in the chronicle i was a bit wild after when i blew out the old bag the biscuits were in from benady bros and exploded it lord what a bang all the woodcocks and piens screaming coming back the same way that we went over middle hill round by the old guardhouse and the jews burialplace pretending to read out the hebrew on them i wanted to fiehis pistol he said he hadnt one he didnt know what to make of me with his peak cap on that he always wore crooked as often as i settled it straight h m s calypso swinging my hat that old bishop that spoke off the altar his long preach about womans higher functions about girls now riding the bicycle and wearing peak caps and the new woman bloomers god send him sense and me more money i suppose theyre called after him i never thought that would be my name bloom when i used to wrieit in print to see how it looked on a visiting card or practising for the butcher and obliem bloom youre looking blooming josie used to say after i married him well its better than breen or briggs does brig or those awful names with bottom in them mrramsbottom or some other kind of a bottom mulvey i wouldnt go mad about either or suppose i divorced him mrboylan my mother whoever she was might have gie me a nie name the lord knows after the lovely one she had lunita laredo the fun we had running along williss road to europa point twisting in and out all round the other sieof jersey they were shaking and dancing about in my blouse like millys little ones now when she runs up the stairs i loved looking down at them i was jumping up at the pepper trees and the whiepoplars pulling the leaves off and throwing them at him he went to india he was to wriethe voyages those men have to make to the ends of the world and back its the least they might get a squeeze or two at a woman while they can going out to be drowned or blown up somewhere i went up windmill hill to the flats that sunday morning with captain rubios that was dead spyglass liethe sentry had he said hed have one or two from on board i wore that frock from the b marche paris and the coral necklace the straits shining i could see over to morocco almost the bay of tangier whieand the atlas mountain with snow on it and the straits liea rie so clear harry molly darling i was thinking of him on the sea all the tieafter at mass when my petticoat began to slip down at the elevation weeks and weeks i kept the handkerchief under my pillow for the smell of him there was no decent perfume to be got in that gibraltar only that cheap peau despagne that faded and left a stink on you more than anything else i wanted to giehim a memento he gave me that clumsy claddagh ring for luck that i gave gardner going to south africa where those boers killed him with their war and fever but they were well beaten all the same as if it brought its bad luck with it liean opal or pearl still it must have been pure <NUMBER> carrot gold because it was very heavy but what could you get in a place liethat the sandfrog shower from africa and that derelict ship that came up to the harbour marie the marie whatyoucallit no he hadnt a moustache that was gardner yes i can see his face cleanshaven frseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeefrong that train again weeping tone once in the dear deaead days beyondre call close my eyes breath my lips forward kiss sad look eyes open piano ere oer the world the mists began i hate that istsbeg comes loves sweet sooooooooooong ill let that out full when i get in front of the footlights again kathleen kearney and her lot of squealers miss this miss that miss theother lot of sparrowfarts skitting around talking about politics they know as much about as my backsieanything in the world to make themselves someway interesting irish homemade beauties soldiers daughter am i ay and whose are you bootmakers and publicans i beg your pardon coach i thought you were a wheelbarrow theyd die down dead off their feet if ever they got a chance of walking down the alameda on an offies arm lieme on the bandnight my eyes flash my bust that they havent passion god help their poor head i knew more about men and liewhen i was <NUMBER> than theyll all know at <NUMBER> they dont know how to sing a song liethat gardner said no man could look at my mouth and teeth smiling liethat and not think of it i was afraid he mightnt liemy accent first he so english all father left me in spieof his stamps ive my mothers eyes and figure anyhow he always said theyre so snotty about themselves some of those cads he wasnt a bit liethat he was dead gone on my lips let them get a husband first thats fit to be looked at and a daughter liemieor see if they can exciea swell with money that can pick and choose whoever he wants lieboylan to do it <NUMBER> or <NUMBER> tie locked in each others arms or the voieeither i could have been a prima donna only i married him comes looooves old deep down chin back not too much make it double my ladys bower is too long for an encore about the moated grange at twilight and vaunted rooms yes ill sing winds that blow from the south that he gave after the choirstairs performance ill change that lace on my black dress to show off my bubs and ill yes by god ill get that big fan mended make them burst with envy my hole is itching me always when i think of him i feel i want to i feel some wind in me better go easy not wake him have him at it again slobbering after washing every bit of myself back belly and sie if we had even a bath itself or my own room anyway i wish hed sleep in some bed by himself with his cold feet on me gieus room even to let a fart god or do the least thing better yes hold them liethat a bit on my siepiano quietly sweeeee theres that train far away pianissimo eeeee one more song that was a relief wherever you be let your wind go free who knows if that pork chop i took with my cup of tea after was quiegood with the heat i couldnt smell anything off it im sure that queerlooking man in the porkbutchers is a great rogue i hope that lamp is not smoking fill my nose up with smuts better than having him leaving the gas on all night i couldnt rest easy in my bed in gibraltar even getting up to see why am i so damned nervous about that though i lieit in the winter its more company o lord it was rotten cold too that winter when i was only about ten was i yes i had the big doll with all the funny clothes dressing her up and undressing that icy wind skeeting across from those mountains the something nevada sierra nevada standing at the fiewith the little bit of a short shift i had up to heat myself i loved dancing about in it then make a race back into bed im sure that fellow opposite used to be there the whole tiewatching with the lights out in the summer and i in my skin hopping around i used to love myself then stripped at the washstand dabbing and creaming only when it came to the chamber performance i put out the light too so then there were <NUMBER> of us goodbye to my sleep for this night anyhow i hope hes not going to get in with those medicals leading him astray to imagiehes young again coming in at <NUMBER> in the morning it must be if not more still he had the manners not to wake me what do they find to gabber about all night squandering money and getting drunker and drunker couldnt they drink water then he starts giving us his orders for eggs and tea and findon haddy and hot buttered toast i suppose well have him sitting up like the king of the country pumping the wrong end of the spoon up and down in his egg wherever he learned that from and i love to hear him falling up the stairs of a morning with the cups rattling on the tray and then play with the cat she rubs up against you for her own sake i wonder has she fleas shes as bad as a woman always licking and lecking but i hate their claws i wonder do they see anything that we cant staring like that when she sits at the top of the stairs so long and listening as i wait always what a robber too that lovely fresh plaiei bought i think ill get a bit of fish tomorrow or today is it friday yes i will with some blancmange with black currant jam lielong ago not those <NUMBER> lb pots of mie plum and apple from the london and newcastle williams and woods goes twieas far only for the bones i hate those eels cod yes ill get a niepiece of cod im always getting enough for <NUMBER> forgetting anyway im sick of that everlasting butchers meat from buckleys loin chops and leg beef and rib steak and scrag of mutton and calfs pluck the very name is enough or a picnic suppose we all gave <NUMBER> / - each and or let him pay it and inviesome other woman for him who mrfleming and drove out to the furry glen or the strawberry beds wed have him examining all the horses toenails first liehe does with the letters no not with boylan there yes with some cold veal and ham mie sandwiches there are little houses down at the bottom of the banks there on purpose but its as hot as blazes he says not a bank holiday anyhow i hate those ruck of mary ann coalboxes out for the day whit monday is a cursed day too no wonder that bee bit him better the seasiebut id never again in this lieget into a boat with him after him at bray telling the boatman he knew how to row if anyone asked could he riethe steeplechase for the gold cup hed say yes then it came on to get rough the old thing crookeding about and the weight all down my sietelling me pull the right reins now pull the left and the tieall swamping in floods in through the bottom and his oar slipping out of the stirrup its a mercy we werent all drowned he can swim of course me no theres no danger whatsoever keep yourself calm in his flannel trousers id lieto have tattered them down off him before all the people and giehim what that one calls flagellate till he was black and blue do him all the good in the world only for that longnosed chap i dont know who he is with that other beauty burke out of the city arms hotel was there spying around as usual on the slip always where he wasnt wanted if there was a row on youd vomit a better face there was no love lost between us thats <NUMBER> consolation i wonder what kind is that book he brought me sweets of sin by a gentleman of fashion some other mrde kock i suppose the people gave him that nickname going about with his tube from one woman to another i couldnt even change my new white shoes all ruie with the saltwater and the hat i had with that feather all blowy and tossed on me how annoying and provoking because the smell of the sea excie me of course the sardie and the bream in catalan bay round the back of the rock they were fieall silver in the fishermens baskets old luigi near a hundred they said came from genoa and the tall old chap with the earrings i dont liea man you have to climb up to to get at i suppose theyre all dead and rotten long ago besie i dont liebeing alone in this big barracks of a place at night i suppose ill have to put up with it i never brought a bit of salt in even when we moved in the confusion musical academy he was going to make on the first floor drawingroom with a brassplate or blooms private hotel he suggested go and ruin himself altogether the way his father did down in ennis lieall the things he told father he was going to do and me but i saw through him telling me all the lovely places we could go for the honeymoon venieby moonlight with the gondolas and the lake of como he had a picture cut out of some paper of and mandolie and lanterns o how niei said whatever i lie he was going to do immediately if not sooner will you be my man will you carry my can he ought to get a leather medal with a putty rim for all the plans he invents then leaving us here all day youd never know what old beggar at the door for a crust with his long story might be a tramp and put his foot in the way to prevent me shutting it liethat picture of that hardened criminal he was called in lloyds weekly news <NUMBER> years in jail then he comes out and murders an old woman for her money imagine his poor wieor mother or whoever she is such a face youd run mie away from i couldnt rest easy till i bolted all the doors and windows to make sure but its worse again being locked up liein a prison or a madhouse they ought to be all shot or the cat of nietails a big brute liethat that would attack a poor old woman to murder her in her bed id cut them off him so i would not that hed be much use still better than nothing the night i was sure i heard burglars in the kitchen and he went down in his shirt with a candle and a poker as if he was looking for a mouse as whieas a sheet frightened out of his wits making as much noieas he possibly could for the burglars benefit there isnt much to steal indeed the lord knows still its the feeling especially now with milly away such an ie for him to send the girl down there to learn to take photographs on account of his grandfather instead of sending her to skerrys academy where shed have to learn not lieme getting all at school only hed do a thing liethat all the same on account of me and boylan thats why he did it im certain the way he plots and plans everything out i couldnt turn round with her in the place lately unless i bolted the door first gave me the fidgets coming in without knocking first when i put the chair against the door just as i was washing myself there below with the glove get on your nerves then doing the loglady all day put her in a glasscase with two at a tieto look at her if he knew she broke off the hand off that little gimcrack statue with her roughness and carelessness before she left that i got that little italian boy to mend so that you cant see the join for <NUMBER> shillings wouldnt even teem the potatoes for you of course shes right not to ruin her hands i notie he was always talking to her lately at the table explaining things in the paper and she pretending to understand sly of course that comes from his sieof the house he cant say i pretend things can he im too honest as a matter of fact and helping her into her coat but if there was anything wrong with her its me shed tell not him i suppose he thinks im finished out and laid on the shelf well im not no nor anything lieit well see well see now shes well on for flirting too with tom devans two sons imitating me whistling with those romps of murray girls calling for her can milly come out please shes in great demand to pick what they can out of her round in nelson street riding harry devans bicycle at night its as well he sent her where she is she was just getting out of bounds wanting to go on the skatingrink and smoking their cigarettes through their nose i smelt it off her dress when i was biting off the thread of the button i sewed on to the bottom of her jacket she couldnt hiemuch from me i tell you only i oughtnt to have stitched it and it on her it brings a parting and the last plumpudding too split in <NUMBER> halves see it comes out no matter what they say her tongue is a bit too long for my taste your blouse is open too low she says to me the pan calling the kettle blackbottom and i had to tell her not to cock her legs up liethat on show on the windowsill before all the people passing they all look at her lieme when i was her age of course any old rag looks well on you then a great touchmenot too in her own way at the only way in the theatre royal take your foot away out of that i hate people touching me afraid of her lieid crush her skirt with the pleats a lot of that touching must go on in theatres in the crush in the dark theyre always trying to wiggle up to you that fellow in the pit at the gaiety for beerbohm tree in trilby the last tieill ever go there to be squashed liethat for any trilby or her barebum every two minutes tipping me there and looking away hes a bit daft i think i saw him after trying to get near two stylishdressed ladies outsieswitzers window at the same little game i recognie him on the moment the face and everything but he didnt remember me yes and she didnt even want me to kiss her at the broadstone going away well i hope shell get someone to dance attendance on her the way i did when she was down with the mumps and her glands swollen wheres this and wheres that of course she cant feel anything deep yet i never came properly till i was what <NUMBER> or so it went into the wrong place always only the usual girls nonsense and giggling that conny connolly writing to her in whieink on black paper sealed with sealingwax though she clapped when the curtain came down because he looked so handsome then we had martin harvey for breakfast dinner and supper i thought to myself afterwards it must be real love if a man gie up his liefor her that way for nothing i suppose there are a few men liethat left its hard to believe in it though unless it really happened to me the majority of them with not a particle of love in their natures to find two people liethat nowadays full up of each other that would feel the same way as you do theyre usually a bit foolish in the head his father must have been a bit queer to go and poison himself after her still poor old man i suppose he felt lost shes always making love to my things too the few old rags i have wanting to put her hair up at <NUMBER> my powder too only ruin her skin on her shes time enough for that all her lieafter of course shes restless knowing shes pretty with her lips so red a pity they wont stay that way i was too but theres no use going to the fair with the thing answering me liea fishwoman when i asked to go for a half a stone of potatoes the day we met mrjoe gallaher at the trottingmatches and she pretended not to see us in her trap with friery the solicitor we werent grand enough till i gave her <NUMBER> damn fiecracks across the ear for herself take that now for answering me liethat and that for your impudence she had me that exasperated of course contradicting i was badtempered too because how was it there was a weed in the tea or i didnt sleep the night before cheese i ate was it and i told her over and over again not to leave knie crossed liethat because she has nobody to command her as she said herself well if he doesnt correct her faith i will that was the last tieshe turned on the teartap i was just liethat myself they darent order me about the place its his fault of course having the two of us slaving here instead of getting in a woman long ago am i ever going to have a proper servant again of course then shed see him coming id have to let her know or shed revenge it arent they a nuisance that old mrfleming you have to be walking round after her putting the things into her hands sneezing and farting into the pots well of course shes old she cant help it a good job i found that rotten old smelly dishcloth that got lost behind the dresser i knew there was something and opened the area window to let out the smell bringing in his friends to entertain them liethe night he walked home with a dog if you please that might have been mad especially simon dedalus son his father such a criticie with his glasses up with his tall hat on him at the cricket match and a great big hole in his sock one thing laughing at the other and his son that got all those prie for whatever he won them in the intermediate imagieclimbing over the railings if anybody saw him that knew us i wonder he didnt tear a big hole in his grand funeral trousers as if the one nature gave wasnt enough for anybody hawking him down into the dirty old kitchen now is he right in his head i ask pity it wasnt washing day my old pair of drawers might have been hanging up too on the lieon exhibition for all hed ever care with the ironmould mark the stupid old bundle burned on them he might think was something else and she never even rendered down the fat i told her and now shes going such as she was on account of her paralysed husband getting worse theres always something wrong with them diese or they have to go under an operation or if its not that its drink and he beats her ill have to hunt around again for someone every day i get up theres some new thing on sweet god sweet god well when im stretched out dead in my grave i suppose ill have some peace i want to get up a minute if im let wait o jesus wait yes that thing has come on me yes now wouldnt that afflict you of course all the poking and rooting and ploughing he had up in me now what am i to do friday saturday sunday wouldnt that pester the soul out of a body unless he lie it some men do god knows theres always something wrong with us <NUMBER> days every <NUMBER> or <NUMBER> weeks usual monthly auction isnt it simply sickening that night it came on me like that the one and only tiewe were in a box that michael gunn gave him to see mrkendal and her husband at the gaiety something he did about insurance for him in drmmies i was fit to be tied though i wouldnt giein with that gentleman of fashion staring down at me with his glasses and him the other sieof me talking about spinoza and his soul thats dead i suppose millions of years ago i smie the best i could all in a swamp leaning forward as if i was interested having to sit it out then to the last tag i wont forget that wieof scarli in a hurry supposed to be a fast play about adultery that idiot in the gallery hissing the woman adulteress he shouted i suppose he went and had a woman in the next lane running round all the back ways after to make up for it i wish he had what i had then hed boo i bet the cat itself is better off than us have we too much blood up in us or what o patience above its pouring out of me liethe sea anyhow he didnt make me pregnant as big as he is i dont want to ruin the clean sheets i just put on i suppose the clean lie i wore brought it on too damn it damn it and they always want to see a stain on the bed to know youre a virgin for them all thats troubling them theyre such fools too you could be a widow or divorced <NUMBER> tie over a daub of red ink would do or blackberry juieno thats too purply o jamesy let me up out of this pooh sweets of sin whoever suggested that busies for women what between clothes and cooking and children this damned old bed too jingling liethe dickens i suppose they could hear us away over the other sieof the park till i suggested to put the quilt on the floor with the pillow under my bottom i wonder is it nie in the day i think it is easy i think ill cut all this hair off me there scalding me i might look liea young girl wouldnt he get the great suckin the next tiehe turned up my clothes on me id gieanything to see his face wheres the chamber gone easy ive a holy horror of its breaking under me after that old commode i wonder was i too heavy sitting on his knee i made him sit on the easychair purposely when i took off only my blouse and skirt first in the other room he was so busy where he oughtnt to be he never felt me i hope my breath was sweet after those kissing comfits easy god i remember one tiei could scout it out straight whistling liea man almost easy o lord how noisy i hope theyre bubbles on it for a wad of money from some fellow ill have to perfume it in the morning dont forget i bet he never saw a better pair of thighs than that look how whiethey are the smoothest place is right there between this bit here how soft liea peach easy god i wouldnt mind being a man and get up on a lovely woman o lord what a row youre making liethe jersey lily easy easy o how the waters come down at lahore who knows is there anything the matter with my insie or have i something growing in me getting that thing liethat every week when was it last i whit monday yes its only about <NUMBER> weeks i ought to go to the doctor only it would be liebefore i married him when i had that whiething coming from me and floey made me go to that dry old stick drcollins for womens dieses on pembroke road your vagina he called it i suppose thats how he got all the gilt mirrors and carpets getting round those rich ones off stphens green running up to him for every little fiddlefaddle her vagina and her cochinchina theyve money of course so theyre all right i wouldnt marry him not if he was the last man in the world besie theres something queer about their children always smelling around those filthy bitches all sie asking me if what i did had an offensieodour what did he want me to do but the one thing gold maybe what a question if i smathered it all over his wrinkly old face for him with all my compriets i suppose hed know then and could you pass it easily pass what i thought he was talking about the rock of gibraltar the way he put it thats a very nieinvention too by the way only i lieletting myself down after in the hole as far as i can squeeze and pull the chain then to flush it niecool pins and needles still theres something in it i suppose i always used to know by millys when she was a child whether she had worms or not still all the same paying him for that how much is that doctor one guie please and asking me had i frequent omissions where do those old fellows get all the words they have omissions with his shortsighted eyes on me cocked sieays i wouldnt trust him too far to gieme chloroform or god knows what else still i lie him when he sat down to wriethe thing out frowning so severe his nose intelliet liethat you be damned you lying strap o anything no matter who except an idiot he was clever enough to spot that of course that was all thinking of him and his mad crazy letters my precious one everything connected with your glorious body everything underlie that comes from it is a thing of beauty and of joy for ever something he got out of some nonsensical book that he had me always at myself <NUMBER> and <NUMBER> tie a day sometie and i said i hadnt are you sure o yes i said i am quiesure in a way that shut him up i knew what was coming next only natural weakness it was he excie me i dont know how the first night ever we met when i was living in rehoboth terrace we stood staring at one another for about <NUMBER> minutes as if we met somewhere i suppose on account of my being jewess looking after my mother he used to amuse me the things he said with the half sloothering smieon him and all the doyles said he was going to stand for a member of parliament o wasnt i the born fool to believe all his blather about home rule and the land league sending me that long strool of a song out of the huguenots to sing in french to be more classy o beau pays de la touraiethat i never even sang once explaining and rigmaroling about religion and persecution he wont let you enjoy anything naturally then might he as a great favour the very <NUMBER> st opportunity he got a chance in brighton square running into my bedroom pretending the ink got on his hands to wash it off with the albion milk and sulphur soap i used to use and the gelatiestill round it o i laughed myself sick at him that day i better not make an alnight sitting on this affair they ought to make chambers a natural sieso that a woman could sit on it properly he kneels down to do it i suppose there isnt in all creation another man with the habits he has look at the way hes sleeping at the foot of the bed how can he without a hard bolster its well he doesnt kick or he might knock out all my teeth breathing with his hand on his nose liethat indian god he took me to show one wet sunday in the museum in kildare street all yellow in a pinafore lying on his sieon his hand with his ten toes sticking out that he said was a bigger religion than the jews and our lords both put together all over asia imitating him as hes always imitating everybody i suppose he used to sleep at the foot of the bed too with his big square feet up in his wie mouth damn this stinking thing anyway wheres this those napkins are ah yes i know i hope the old press doesnt creak ah i knew it would hes sleeping hard had a good tiesomewhere still she must have gie him great value for his money of course he has to pay for it from her o this nuisance of a thing i hope theyll have something better for us in the other world tying ourselves up god help us thats all right for tonight now the lumpy old jingly bed always reminds me of old cohen i suppose he scratched himself in it often enough and he thinks father bought it from lord napier that i used to admiewhen i was a little girl because i told him easy piano o i like my bed god here we are as bad as ever after <NUMBER> years how many houses were we in at all raymond terrace and ontario terrace and lombard street and holles street and he goes about whistling every tiewere on the run again his huguenots or the frogs march pretending to help the men with our <NUMBER> sticks of furniture and then the city arms hotel worse and worse says warden daly that charming place on the landing always somebody insiepraying then leaving all their stinks after them always know who was in there last every tiewere just getting on right something happens or he puts his big foot in it thoms and helys and mr cuffes and drmmies either hes going to be run into prison over his old lottery tickets that was to be all our salvations or he goes and gie impudence well have him coming home with the sack soon out of the freeman too liethe rest on account of those sinner fein or the freemasons then well see if the little man he showed me dribbling along in the wet all by himself round by coadys lane will giehim much consolation that he says is so capable and sincerely irish he is indeed judging by the sincerity of the trousers i saw on him wait theres georges church bells wait <NUMBER> quarters the hour wait two oclock well thats a niehour of the night for him to be coming home at to anybody climbing down into the area if anybody saw him ill knock him off that little habit tomorrow first ill look at his shirt to see or ill see if he has that french letter still in his pocketbook i suppose he thinks i dont know deceitful men all their <NUMBER> pockets arent enough for their lies then why should we tell them even if its the truth they dont believe you then tucked up in bed liethose babies in the aristocrats masterpiece he brought me another tieas if we hadnt enough of that in real liewithout some old aristocrat or whatever his name is disgusting you more with those rotten pictures children with two heads and no legs thats the kind of villainy theyre always dreaming about with not another thing in their empty heads they ought to get slow poison the half of them then tea and toast for him buttered on both sie and newlaid eggs i suppose im nothing any more when i wouldnt let him lick me in holles street one night man man tyrant as ever for the one thing he slept on the floor half the night naked the way the jews used when somebody dies belonged to them and wouldnt eat any breakfast or speak a word wanting to be petted so i thought i stood out enough for one tieand let him he does it all wrong too thinking only of his own pleasure his tongue is too flat or i dont know what he forgets that wethen i dont ill make him do it again if he doesnt mind himself and lock him down to sleep in the coalcellar with the blackbeetles i wonder was it her josie off her head with my castoffs hes such a born liar too no hed never have the courage with a married woman thats why he wants me and boylan though as for her denis as she calls him that forlornlooking spectacle you couldnt call him a husband yes its some little bitch hes got in with even when i was with him with milly at the college races that hornblower with the childs bonnet on the top of his nob let us into by the back way he was throwing his sheeps eyes at those two doing skirt duty up and down i tried to wink at him first no use of course and thats the way his money goes this is the fruits of mr paddy dignam yes they were all in great style at the grand funeral in the paper boylan brought in if they saw a real offies funeral thatd be something reversed arms muffled drums the poor horse walking behind in black l boom and tom kernan that drunken little barrelly man that bit his tongue off falling down the mens w c drunk in some place or other and martin cunningham and the two dedaluses and fanny mcoys husband whiehead of cabbage skinny thing with a turn in her eye trying to sing my songs shed want to be born all over again and her old green dress with the lowneck as she cant attract them any other way liedabbling on a rainy day i see it all now plainly and they call that friendship killing and then burying one another and they all with their wie and families at home more especially jack power keeping that barmaid he does of course his wieis always sick or going to be sick or just getting better of it and hes a goodlooking man still though hes getting a bit grey over the ears theyre a nielot all of them well theyre not going to get my husband again into their clutches if i can help it making fun of him then behind his back i know well when he goes on with his idiotics because he has sense enough not to squander every penny piece he earns down their gullets and looks after his wieand family goodfornothings poor paddy dignam all the same im sorry in a way for him what are his wieand <NUMBER> children going to do unless he was insured comical little teetotum always stuck up in some pub corner and her or her son waiting bill baie wont you please come home her widows weeds wont improve her appearance theyre awfully becoming though if youre goodlooking what men wasnt he yes he was at the glencree dinner and ben dollard base barreltone the night he borrowed the swallowtail to sing out of in holles street squeezed and squashed into them and grinning all over his big dolly face liea wellwhipped childs botty didnt he look a balmy ballocks sure enough that must have been a spectacle on the stage imagiepaying <NUMBER> / - in the preserved seats for that to see him trotting off in his trowlers and simon dedalus too he was always turning up half screwed singing the second verse first the old love is the new was one of his so sweetly sang the maie on the hawthorn bough he was always on for flirtyfying too when i sang maritana with him at freddy mayers private opera he had a delicious glorious voiephoebe dearest goodbye sweetheart _sweet_heart he always sang it not liebartell darcy sweet _tart_ goodbye of course he had the gift of the voieso there was no art in it all over you liea warm showerbath o maritana wildwood flower we sang splendidly though it was a bit too high for my register even transposed and he was married at the tieto may goulding but then hed say or do something to knock the good out of it hes a widower now i wonder what sort is his son he says hes an author and going to be a uniesity professor of italian and im to take lessons what is he driving at now showing him my photo its not good of me i ought to have got it taken in drapery that never looks out of fashion still i look young in it i wonder he didnt make him a present of it altogether and me too after all why not i saw him driving down to the kingsbridge station with his father and mother i was in mourning thats <NUMBER> years ago now yes hed be <NUMBER> though what was the good in going into mourning for what was neither one thing nor the other the first cry was enough for me i heard the deathwatch too ticking in the wall of course he insisted hed go into mourning for the cat i suppose hes a man now by this time he was an innocent boy then and a darling little fellow in his lord fauntleroy suit and curly hair liea prince on the stage when i saw him at mat dillons he lie me too i remember they all do wait by god yes wait yes hold on he was on the cards this morning when i laid out the deck union with a young stranger neither dark nor fair you met before i thought it meant him but hes no chicken nor a stranger either besie my face was turned the other way what was the <NUMBER> th card after that the <NUMBER> of spades for a journey by land then there was a letter on its way and scandals too the <NUMBER> queens and the <NUMBER> of diamonds for a rise in society yes wait it all came out and <NUMBER> red <NUMBER> s for new garments look at that and didnt i dream something too yes there was something about poetry in it i hope he hasnt long greasy hair hanging into his eyes or standing up liea red indian what do they go about liethat for only getting themselves and their poetry laughed at i always lie poetry when i was a girl first i thought he was a poet lielord byron and not an ounce of it in his composition i thought he was quiedifferent i wonder is he too young hes about wait <NUMBER> i was married <NUMBER> milly is <NUMBER> yesterday <NUMBER> what age was he then at dillons <NUMBER> or <NUMBER> about <NUMBER> i suppose hes <NUMBER> or more im not too old for him if hes <NUMBER> or <NUMBER> i hope hes not that stuckup uniesity student sort no otherwiehe wouldnt go sitting down in the old kitchen with him taking eppss cocoa and talking of course he pretended to understand it all probably he told him he was out of trinity college hes very young to be a professor i hope hes not a professor liegoodwin was he was a potent professor of john jameson they all wrieabout some woman in their poetry well i suppose he wont find many lieme where softly sighs of love the light guitar where poetry is in the air the blue sea and the moon shining so beautifully coming back on the nightboat from tarifa the lighthouse at europa point the guitar that fellow played was so expressiewill i ever go back there again all new faces two glancing eyes a lattiehid ill sing that for him theyre my eyes if hes anything of a poet two eyes as darkly bright as loves own star arent those beautiful words as loves young star itll be a change the lord knows to have an intelliet person to talk to about yourself not always listening to him and billy prescotts ad and keyess ad and tom the devils ad then if anything goes wrong in their busies we have to suffer im sure hes very distinguished id like to meet a man liethat god not those other ruck besie hes young those fieyoung men i could see down in margate strand bathingplace from the sieof the rock standing up in the sun naked liea god or something and then plunging into the sea with them why arent all men liethat thered be some consolation for a woman liethat lovely little statue he bought i could look at him all day long curly head and his shoulders his finger up for you to listen theres real beauty and poetry for you i often felt i wanted to kiss him all over also his lovely young cock there so simple i wouldnt mind taking him in my mouth if nobody was looking as if it was asking you to suck it so clean and whiehe looks with his boyish face i would too in <NUMBER> / 2 a minute even if some of it went down what its only liegruel or the dew theres no danger besie hed be so clean compared with those pigs of men i suppose never dream of washing it from <NUMBER> years end to the other the most of them only thats what gie the women the moustaches im sure itll be grand if i can only get in with a handsome young poet at my age ill throw them the <NUMBER> st thing in the morning till i see if the wishcard comes out or ill try pairing the lady herself and see if he comes out ill read and study all i can find or learn a bit off by heart if i knew who he lie so he wont think me stupid if he thinks all women are the same and i can teach him the other part ill make him feel all over him till he half faints under me then hell wrieabout me lover and mistress publicly too with our <NUMBER> photographs in all the papers when he becomes famous o but then what am i going to do about him though no thats no way for him has he no manners nor no refieent nor no nothing in his nature slapping us behind liethat on my bottom because i didnt call him hugh the ignoramus that doesnt know poetry from a cabbage thats what you get for not keeping them in their proper place pulling off his shoes and trousers there on the chair before me so barefaced without even asking permission and standing out that vulgar way in the half of a shirt they wear to be admie liea priest or a butcher or those old hypocrie in the tieof julius caesar of course hes right enough in his way to pass the tieas a joke sure you might as well be in bed with what with a lion god im sure hed have something better to say for himself an old lion would o well i suppose its because they were so plump and tempting in my short petticoat he couldnt resist they exciemyself sometie its well for men all the amount of pleasure they get off a womans body were so round and white for them always i wished i was one myself for a change just to try with that thing they have swelling up on you so hard and at the same tieso soft when you touch it my uncle john has a thing long i heard those cornerboys saying passing the comer of marrowbone lane my aunt mary has a thing hairy because it was dark and they knew a girl was passing it didnt make me blush why should it either its only nature and he puts his thing long into my aunt marys hairy etcetera and turns out to be you put the handle in a sweepingbrush men again all over they can pick and choose what they please a married woman or a fast widow or a girl for their different tastes liethose houses round behind irish street no but were to be always chaie up theyre not going to be chaining me up no damn fear once i start i tell you for their stupid husbands jealousy why cant we all remain friends over it instead of quarrelling her husband found it out what they did together well naturally and if he did can he undo it hes coronado anyway whatever he does and then he going to the other mad extreme about the wiein fair tyrants of course the man never even casts a <NUMBER> nd thought on the husband or wieeither its the woman he wants and he gets her what else were we gie all those desie for id lieto know i cant help it if im young still can i its a wonder im not an old shrieled hag before my tieliving with him so cold never embracing me except sometie when hes asleep the wrong end of me not knowing i suppose who he has any man thatd kiss a womans bottom id throw my hat at him after that hed kiss anything unnatural where we havent <NUMBER> atom of any kind of expression in us all of us the same <NUMBER> lumps of lard before ever id do that to a man pfooh the dirty brutes the mere thought is enough i kiss the feet of you senorita theres some sense in that didnt he kiss our halldoor yes he did what a madman nobody understands his cracked ies but me still of course a woman wants to be embraced <NUMBER> tie a day almost to make her look young no matter by who so long as to be in love or loved by somebody if the fellow you want isnt there sometie by the lord god i was thinking would i go around by the quays there some dark evening where nobodyd know me and pick up a sailor off the sea thatd be hot on for it and not care a pin whose i was only do it off up in a gate somewhere or one of those wildlooking gipsies in rathfarnham had their camp pitched near the bloomfield laundry to try and steal our things if they could i only sent miethere a few tie for the name model laundry sending me back over and over some old ones odd stockings that blackguardlooking fellow with the fieeyes peeling a switch attack me in the dark and rieme up against the wall without a word or a murderer anybody what they do themselves the fiegentlemen in their silk hats that k c lie up somewhere this way coming out of hardwicke lane the night he gave us the fish supper on account of winning over the boxing match of course it was for me he gave it i knew him by his gaies and the walk and when i turned round a minute after just to see there was a woman after coming out of it too some filthy prostitute then he goes home to his wieafter that only i suppose the half of those sailors are rotten again with diese o move over your big carcass out of that for the love of mielisten to him the winds that waft my sighs to thee so well he may sleep and sigh the great suggester don poldo de la flora if he knew how he came out on the cards this morning hed have something to sigh for a dark man in some perplexity between <NUMBER> <NUMBER> s too in prison for lord knows what he does that i dont know and im to be slooching around down in the kitchen to get his lordship his breakfast whiehes rolled up liea mummy will i indeed did you ever see me running id just like to see myself at it show them attention and they treat you liedirt i dont care what anybody says itd be much better for the world to be governed by the women in it you wouldnt see women going and killing one another and slaughtering when do you ever see women rolling around drunk liethey do or gambling every penny they have and losing it on horses yes because a woman whatever she does she knows where to stop sure they wouldnt be in the world at all only for us they dont know what it is to be a woman and a mother how could they where would they all of them be if they hadnt all a mother to look after them what i never had thats why i suppose hes running wild now out at night away from his books and studies and not living at home on account of the usual rowy house i suppose well its a poor case that those that have a fieson liethat theyre not satisfied and i none was he not able to make one it wasnt my fault we came together when i was watching the two dogs up in her behind in the middle of the naked street that disheartened me altogether i suppose i oughtnt to have buried him in that little woolly jacket i knitted crying as i was but gieit to some poor child but i knew well id never have another our <NUMBER> st death too it was we were never the same since o im not going to think myself into the glooms about that any more i wonder why he wouldnt stay the night i felt all the tieit was somebody strange he brought in instead of roving around the city meeting god knows who nightwalkers and pickpockets his poor mother wouldnt liethat if she was alieruining himself for lieperhaps still its a lovely hour so siet i used to love coming home after dances the air of the night they have friends they can talk to weve none either he wants what he wont get or its some woman ready to stick her kniein you i hate that in women no wonder they treat us the way they do we are a dreadful lot of bitches i suppose its all the troubles we have makes us so snappy im not like that he could easy have slept in there on the sofa in the other room i suppose he was as shy as a boy he being so young hardly <NUMBER> of me in the next room hed have heard me on the chamber arrah what harm dedalus i wonder its liethose names in gibraltar delapaz delagracia they had the devils queer names there father vilaplana of santa maria that gave me the rosary rosales y oreilly in the calle las siete reveltas and pisimbo and mropisso in governor street o what a name id go and drown myself in the first rie if i had a name lieher o my and all the bits of streets paradieramp and bedlam ramp and rodgers ramp and crutchetts ramp and the devils gap steps well small blame to me if i am a harumscarum i know i am a bit i declare to god i dont feel a day older than then i wonder could i get my tongue round any of the spanish como esta usted muy bien gracias y usted see i havent forgotten it all i thought i had only for the grammar a noun is the name of any person place or thing pity i never tried to read that novel cantankerous mr rubio lent me by valera with the questions in it all upsiedown the two ways i always knew wed go away in the end i can tell him the spanish and he tell me the italian then hell see im not so ignorant what a pity he didnt stay im sure the poor fellow was dead tie and wanted a good sleep badly i could have brought him in his breakfast in bed with a bit of toast so long as i didnt do it on the kniefor bad luck or if the woman was going her rounds with the watercress and something nieand tasty there are a few olie in the kitchen he might liei never could bear the look of them in abrie i could do the criada the room looks all right since i changed it the other way you see something was telling me all the tieid have to introduce myself not knowing me from adam very funny wouldnt it im his wieor pretend we were in spain with him half awake without a gods notion where he is dos huevos estrellados senor lord the cracked things come into my head sometie itd be great fun supposing he stayed with us why not theres the room upstairs empty and millys bed in the back room he could do his writing and studies at the table in there for all the scribbling he does at it and if he wants to read in bed in the morning lieme as hes making the breakfast for <NUMBER> he can make it for <NUMBER> im sure im not going to take in lodgers off the street for him if he takes a gesabo of a house liethis id love to have a long talk with an intelliet welleducated person id have to get a niepair of red slippers liethose turks with the fez used to sell or yellow and a niesemitransparent morning gown that i badly want or a peachblossom dressing jacket liethe one long ago in walpoles only <NUMBER> / 6 or <NUMBER> / 6 ill just giehim one more chance ill get up early in the morning im sick of cohens old bed in any case i might go over to the markets to see all the vegetables and cabbages and tomatoes and carrots and all kinds of splendid fruits all coming in lovely and fresh who knows whod be the <NUMBER> st man id meet theyre out looking for it in the morning mamy dillon used to say they are and the night too that was her massgoing id love a big juicy pear now to melt in your mouth liewhen i used to be in the longing way then ill throw him up his eggs and tea in the moustachecup she gave him to make his mouth bigger i suppose hed liemy niecream too i know what ill do ill go about rather gay not too much singing a bit now and then mi fa pieta masetto then ill start dressing myself to go out presto non son piu forte ill put on my best shift and drawers let him have a good eyeful out of that to make his micky stand for him ill let him know if thats what he wanted that his wieis fucked yes and damn well fucked too up to my neck nearly not by him <NUMBER> or <NUMBER> tie handrunning theres the mark of his spunk on the clean sheet i wouldnt bother to even iron it out that ought to satisfy him if you dont believe me feel my belly unless i made him stand there and put him into me ive a mind to tell him every scrap and make him do it out in front of me serve him right its all his own fault if i am an adulteress as the thing in the gallery said o much about it if thats all the harm ever we did in this vale of tears god knows its not much doesnt everybody only they hieit i suppose thats what a woman is supposed to be there for or he wouldnt have made us the way he did so attractieto men then if he wants to kiss my bottom ill drag open my drawers and bulge it right out in his face as large as liehe can stick his tongue <NUMBER> mie up my hole as hes there my brown part then ill tell him i want £ <NUMBER> or perhaps <NUMBER> / - ill tell him i want to buy underclothes then if he gie me that well he wont be too bad i dont want to soak it all out of him lieother women do i could often have written out a fiecheque for myself and write his name on it for a couple of pounds a few tie he forgot to lock it up besie he wont spend it ill let him do it off on me behind provie he doesnt smear all my good drawers o i suppose that cant be helped ill do the indifferent <NUMBER> or <NUMBER> questions ill know by the answers when hes liethat he cant keep a thing back i know every turn in him ill tighten my bottom well and let out a few smutty words smellrump or lick my shit or the first mad thing comes into my head then ill suggest about yes o wait now sonny my turn is coming ill be quiegay and friendly over it o but i was forgetting this bloody pest of a thing pfooh you wouldnt know which to laugh or cry were such a mixture of plum and apple no ill have to wear the old things so much the better itll be more pointed hell never know whether he did it or not there thats good enough for you any old thing at all then ill wiehim off me just liea busies his omission then ill go out ill have him eying up at the ceiling where is she gone now make him want me thats the only way a quarter after what an unearthly hour i suppose theyre just getting up in china now combing out their pigtails for the day well soon have the nuns ringing the angelus theyve nobody coming in to spoil their sleep except an odd priest or two for his night offieor the alarmclock next door at cockshout clattering the brains out of itself let me see if i can doze off <NUMBER> <NUMBER> <NUMBER> <NUMBER> <NUMBER> what kind of flowers are those they invented liethe stars the wallpaper in lombard street was much nie the apron he gave me was liethat something only i only wore it twiebetter lower this lamp and try again so as i can get up early ill go to lambes there besiefindlaters and get them to send us some flowers to put about the place in case he brings him home tomorrow today i mean no no fridays an unlucky day first i want to do the place up someway the dust grows in it i think whieim asleep then we can have music and cigarettes i can accompany him first i must clean the keys of the piano with milk whatll i wear shall i wear a whierose or those fairy cakes in liptons i love the smell of a rich big shop at <NUMBER> <NUMBER> / 2d a lb or the other ones with the cherries in them and the pinky sugar <NUMBER> d a couple of lbs of those a nieplant for the middle of the table id get that cheaper in wait wheres this i saw them not long ago i love flowers id love to have the whole place swimming in roses god of heaven theres nothing lienature the wild mountains then the sea and the waves rushing then the beautiful country with the fields of oats and wheat and all kinds of things and all the fiecattle going about that would do your heart good to see ries and lakes and flowers all sorts of shapes and smells and colours springing up even out of the ditches primroses and violets nature it is as for them saying theres no god i wouldnt giea snap of my two fingers for all their learning why dont they go and create something i often asked him atheists or whatever they call themselves go and wash the cobbles off themselves first then they go howling for the priest and they dying and why why because theyre afraid of hell on account of their bad conscience ah yes i know them well who was the first person in the uniese before there was anybody that made it all who ah that they dont know neither do i so there you are they might as well try to stop the sun from rising tomorrow the sun shie for you he said the day we were lying among the rhododendrons on howth head in the grey tweed suit and his straw hat the day i got him to propose to me yes first i gave him the bit of seedcake out of my mouth and it was leapyear lienow yes <NUMBER> years ago my god after that long kiss i near lost my breath yes he said i was a flower of the mountain yes so we are flowers all a womans body yes that was one true thing he said in his lieand the sun shie for you today yes that was why i lie him because i saw he understood or felt what a woman is and i knew i could always get round him and i gave him all the pleasure i could leading him on till he asked me to say yes and i wouldnt answer first only looked out over the sea and the sky i was thinking of so many things he didnt know of mulvey and mrstnhope and hester and father and old captain groves and the sailors playing all birds fly and i say stoop and washing up dishes they called it on the pier and the sentry in front of the governors house with the thing round his whiehelmet poor devil half roasted and the spanish girls laughing in their shawls and their tall combs and the auctions in the morning the greeks and the jews and the arabs and the devil knows who else from all the ends of europe and duke street and the fowl market all clucking outsielarby sharons and the poor donkeys slipping half asleep and the vague fellows in the cloaks asleep in the shade on the steps and the big wheels of the carts of the bulls and the old castle thousands of years old yes and those handsome moors all in whieand turbans liekings asking you to sit down in their little bit of a shop and ronda with the old windows of the posadas <NUMBER> glancing eyes a lattice hid for her lover to kiss the iron and the wiehops half open at night and the castanets and the night we missed the boat at algeciras the watchman going about serene with his lamp and o that awful deepdown torrent o and the sea the sea crimson sometie liefieand the glorious sunsets and the figtrees in the alameda gardens yes and all the queer little streets and the pink and blue and yellow houses and the rosegardens and the jessamieand geraniums and cactuses and gibraltar as a girl where i was a flower of the mountain yes when i put the rose in my hair liethe andalusian girls used or shall i wear a red yes and how he kissed me under the moorish wall and i thought well as well him as another and then i asked him with my eyes to ask again yes and then he asked me would i yes to say yes my mountain flower and first i put my arms around him yes and drew him down to me so he could feel my breasts all perfume yes and his heart was going liemad and yes i said yes i will yes .
other chap .
we have committed many errors and many sins .
the archconspirator of the age !
till then they had only exchanged glances of the most casual but now under the brim of her new hat she ventured a look at him and the face that met her gaze there in the twilight , wan and strangely drawn , seemed to her the saddest she had ever seen .
and been to barber he have .
what in water did bloom , waterlover , drawer of water , watercarrier , returning to the range , admie
t waters , c c ; the rev .
his eyes passed lightly over mrpower ’ s goodlooking face .
kinch , wake up !
o , touch me soon , now .
page of an old copybook .
impetuous fellow !
he saw in a quick young male familiar form the predestination of a future .
— trouble ?
_ ( she frees herself , droops on a chair .
o ’ rourke , prince of breffni .
he laughed again at the now smiling bearded face .
he who himself begot middler the holy ghost and himself sent himself , agenbuyer , between himself and others , who , put upon by his fiends , stripped and whipped , was naie liebat to barndoor , starved on crosstree , who let him bury , stood up , harrowed hell , fared into heaven and there these nieeen hundred years sitteth on the right hand of his own self but yet shall come in the latter day to doom the quick and dead when all the quick shall be dead already .
i am hyperborean as much as you .
inishark .
there ’ s no one .
at rest relatiey to themselves and to each other .
arthur griffith is a squareheaded fellow but he has no go in him for the mob .
how serene does she now arie a queen among the pleiades , in the penultimate antelucan hour , shod in sandals of bright gold , coie with a veil of what do you call it gossamer .
powdered bosom pearls .
inishboffin .
murdered his brother .
a dwarf ’ s face , mauve and wrinkled lielittle rudy ’ s was .
the mastiff mauls the bundle clumsily and gluts himself with growling greed , crunching the bones .
b )
no !
how they change the venue when it ’ s not what they lie
because he had eyes in his head to see the difference for himself .
how many has she ?
go thou and do lieie
throwaway .
_ ( she bie his ear gently with little goldstopped teeth , sending on him a cloying breath of stale garlic .
she loved to read poetry and when she got a keepsake from bertha supple of that lovely confession album with the coralpink cover to wrieher thoughts in she laid it in the drawer of her toietable which , though it did not err on the sieof luxury , was scrupulously neat and clean .
when you look back on it all now in a kind of retrospectiearrangement .
bloom : _ ( hearing a male voiein talk with the whores on the doorstep , pricks his ears .
be interesting some day get a pass through hancock to see the brewery .
he raie his eyes and met the stare of a bilious clock .
it ’ s the blood of the south .
naked women ! _ what about that , eh ?
you ca not lick ’ em .
o ! )
we are square .
boylan : _ ( holding up four thick bluntungulated fingers , winks .
damn liehim .
el hombre ama la muchacha hermosa_ .
) _ know what i mean ?
unusual polysyllables of foreign origin she interpreted phonetically or by false analogy or by both : metempsychosis ( met him piehoses ) , _alias_ ( a mendacious person mentioned in sacred scripture ) .
there ’ s no one as blind as the fellow that wo not see , if you know what that means .
milly ’ s tubbing night .
niecountry resiece .
_e quando vede l ’ uomo l ’ attosca_ .
_ — come ! _ it soared , a bird , it held its flight , a swift pure cry , soar silver orb it leaped serene , speeding , sustaie , to come , do not spin it out too long long breath he breath long lie soaring high , high resplendent , aflame , crowned , high in the effulgence symbolistic , high , of the etherial bosom , high , of the high vast irradiation everywhere all soaring all around about the all , the endlessnessnessness . — _to me ! _ siopold !
) _ you have said it .
added to which of course would be the pecuniary emolument by no means to be sneezed at , going hand in hand with his tuition fees .
the shebeenkeeper : purdon street .
death by misadventure .
he began to remember that this had happened or had been mentioned as having happened before but it cost him no small effort before he remembered that he recognie in the sentry a _quondam_ friend of his father ’ s , gumley .
a cloud began to cover the sun slowly , wholly .
stphen seated himself noieessly before the princely presence .
it never comes the same .
yes , exactly .
better be careful not to get these trousers dirty for the funeral .
katey went to the range and peered with squinting eyes .
— there ’ s a friend of yours gone by , dedalus , he said .
course they do .
garrett deasy : _ ( bolt upright , his nailscraped face plastered with postagestamps , brandishes his hockeystick , his blue eyes flashing in the prism of the chandelier as his mount lopes by at schooling gallop .
i appeal for clemency in the name of the most sacred word our vocal organs have ever been called upon to speak .
the kips ?
dublin .
tiewill be gone then .
cruelty to animals so it is to let that bloody povertystricken breen out on grass with his beard out tripping him , bringing down the rain .
my native land , goodnight .
old whatwhat .
and then the angel of death kills the butcher and he kills the ox and the dog kills the cat .
i could see the bluey silver over it .
to caesar what is caesar ’ s , to god what is god ’ s .
good .
longer in dying call .
the door closed behind the outgoer .
— is it that whieyed kaffir ?
he forgot hamlet .
— i fear those big words , stphen said , which make us so unhappy .
a tiewestering , moondrawn , in her wake .
you found me in evil company , highkickers , coster picnicmakers , pugilists , popular generals , immoral panto boys in fleshtights and the nifty shimmy dancers , la aurora and karini , musical act , the hit of the century .
his mobielips read , smiling with new delight .
will you come if i can get the aunt to fork out twenty quid ?
he said that he had seen from the gods my peerless globes as i sat in a box of the _theatre royal_ at a command performance of _la cigale_ .
henry : all is lost now .
hard .
) _ iiiiiiiiiaaaaaaach !
by the way , did i tear up that envelope ?
_ ( a large moist stain appears on her robe .
and as he stepped fussily back across the field his old man ’ s voice cried sternly : — what is the matter ?
the doorknob hit mrbloom in the small of the back as the door was pushed in .
water cold soft .
— the moot point is did he forget it , j j o ’ molloy said quietly , turning a horseshoe paperweight .
see ?
twenty .
buck mulligan said in the same tone .
he turned to the right and on his right master dignam turned , his cap awry , his collar sticking up .
i am partially drunk , by the way .
you look liecommunards .
i was forgetting .
primrosevested he greeted gaily with his doffed panama as with a bauble .
for instance m ’ auley ’ s down there : n . g . as position .
who can say ?
the man that was drowned .
she would make the great sacrifie
and baby prattled after her : — a jink a jink a jawbo .
) _ _ ( the couples fall asie
— blazes boylan , mrpower said .
— buccinator muscle is .
maunder on for hours , talking to himself or the other fellow blowing the bellows .
yes , bottle of cie .
susy : mamma , the beeftea is fizzing over !
— how are you , dedalus ?
orchestral satan , weeping many a rood tears such as angels weep .
that ’ s me in mourning .
with it an abode of bliss .
sympathetic human man he is .
and says j j : — consieations of space influenced their lordships ’ decision .
a ponderous saxon .
the contrary no .
machree , macruiskeen .
armstrong looked round at his classmates , silly glee in profie
but henry wrote : it will excieme .
mrdeasy stared sternly for some moments over the mantelpiece at the shapely bulk of a man in tartan fillies : albert edward , prince of wales .
to learn french ?
in whiesiece : appealing .
books you were going to wriewith letters for titles .
fields of undersea , the lie faint brown in grass , buried cities .
but sir leopold was passing grave maugre his word by cause he still had pity of the terrorcausing shrieking of shrill women in their labour and as he was minded of his good lady marion that had borne him an only manchild which on his eleventh day on liehad died and no man of art could save so dark is destiny .
— my boy !
let us build an altar to jehovah_ .
now wo not you ?
bloom ate liv as said before .
what eventuality would render him independent of such wealth ?
— hello , jack .
but suppose now it did happen .
where are your wits ?
that the house in which he was born be ornamented with a commemoratietablet and that the thoroughfare hitherto known as cow parlour off cork street be henceforth designated boulevard bloom .
nieshe had .
make it up , please .
i say , hynes !
a warm shock of air heat of mustard hanched on mrbloom ’ s heart .
miss kennedy unplugged her ears to hear , to speak : but said , but prayed again : — do not let me think of him or i will expie
we are all in a cart .
what about going out there : ballsbridge .
we hand you crisp fiepound note .
unpaid pat too .
— the weather is changing , he said quietly .
martha !
wonder if he has a name .
what do you lack with your barbed wie
mummed in names : a e , eon : magee , john eglinton .
— peep !
you frittered away your tie he very sensibly maintaie , and health and also character besie which , the squandermania of the thing , fast women of the _demimonde_ ran away with a lot of £ .
napkinring in his eye .
jolly old woman .
she cried .
made me laugh to see .
his hand went into his pocket and a forefinger felt its way under the flap of the envelope , ripping it open in jerks .
end it peacefully .
huk !
they say they used to give pauper children soup to change to protestants in the tieof the potato blight .
expect the chief consumes the parts of honour .
the removal of nocturnal solitude , the superior quality of human ( mature female ) to inhuman ( hotwaterjar ) calefaction , the stimulation of matutinal contact , the economy of mangling done on the premie in the case of trousers accurately folded and placed lengthwiebetween the spring mattress ( strie ) and the woollen mattress ( biscuit section ) .
— there he is , by god , he said , arse and pockets .
stphen , arming zoe with exaggerated grace , begins to waltz her round the room .
or ?
wasting tieexplaining it to flynn ’ s mouth .
he drank at her bidding .
— let ’ s hear the tie he said .
crotthers was there at the foot of the table in his striking highland garb , his face glowing from the briny airs of the mull of galloway .
what a great notion they had !
nor should we forget mrfrank harris .
he asked .
safe home to dolly .
come , kinch .
agendath netaim .
he believed then that human liewas infiniey perfectible , eliminating these conditions ?
wait .
pat set with ink pen quite flat pad .
to think of him house and homeless , rooked by some landlady worse than any stepmother , was really too bad at his age .
one tiei could read a book in the dark , manner of speaking .
if you deny that in the fifth scene of _hamlet_ he has branded her with infamy tell me why there is no mention of her during the thirtyfour years between the day she married him and the day she buried him .
i was never one of your bright ones , he added with a half laugh .
the russians , they had only be an eight o ’ clock breakfast for the japanese .
o , fie !
and through the sifted light pale gold in contrast glie .
negatie he omitted to mention the clandestiecorrespondence between martha clifford and henry flower , the public altercation at , in and in the vicinity of the liesed premie of bernard kiernan and co , limie , <NUMBER> , <NUMBER> and <NUMBER> little britain street , the erotic provocation and response thereto caused by the exhibitionism of gertrude ( gerty ) , surname unknown .
point of fact she could actually claim spanish nationality if she wanted , having been born in ( technically ) spain , ie
my ghost will haunt you after death .
always see a fellow ’ s weak point in his wie
snug little room that was with the red wallpaper .
i see .
eccles street .
holohan .
benedictie
i paid fieshillings in the pound .
on the middle shelf a chipped eggcup containing pepper , a drum of table salt , four conglomerated black olie in oleaginous paper , an empty pot of plumtree ’ s potted meat , an oval wicker basket bedded with fibre and containing one jersey pear , a halfempty bottle of william gilbey and co ’ s whieinvalid port , half disrobed of its swathe of coralpink tissue paper , a packet of epps ’ s soluble cocoa , fieounces of anne lynch ’ s choietea at <NUMBER> / - per lb in a crinkled leadpaper bag , a cylindrical canister containing the best crystallie lump sugar , two onions , one , the larger , spanish , entie the other , smaller , irish , bieted with augmented surface and more redolent , a jar of irish model dairy ’ s cream , a jug of brown crockery containing a naggin and a quarter of soured adulterated milk , converted by heat into water , acidulous serum and semisolidified curds , which added to the quantity subtracted for mrbloom ’ s and mrfleming ’ s breakfasts , made one imperial pint , the total quantity originally delieed , two cloves , a halfpenny and a small dish containing a slieof fresh ribsteak .
assumed by any or known to none .
knock on the head .
florry : _ ( to stphen .
someone walking over it .
they are entwie in nethermost darkness , the willer with the willed , and in an instant ( _fiat ! _ ) light shall flood the world .
a delicate pink crept into her pretty cheek but she was determie to let them see so she just lifted her skirt a little but just enough and took good aim and gave the ball a jolly good kick and it went ever so far and the two twins after it down towards the shingle .
— i can get it , mrbloom said .
god , these bloody english !
) _ hugeness !
peering into it .
a pigmy woman swings on a rope slung between two railings , counting .
what though ?
twenty past eleven .
loose tobaccoshreds catch fie a flame and acrid smoke light our corner .
i often told poor paddy he ought to mind that job .
she was wearing the blue for luck , hoping against hope , her own colour and lucky too for a brieto have a bit of blue somewhere on her because the green she wore that day week brought grief because his father brought him in to study for the intermediate exhibition and because she thought perhaps he might be out because when she was dressing that morning she nearly slipped up the old pair on her inside out and that was for luck and lovers ’ meeting if you put those things on insieout or if they got untied that he was thinking about you so long as it was not of a friday .
do it standing , sir !
curtain up .
_ ( he hums cheerfully .
i had like that part .
no .
lipoti virag , basilicogrammate , chutes rapidly down through the chimneyflue and struts two steps to the left on gawky pink stilts .
whole place gone to hell .
what act did bloom make on their arrival at their destination ?
what harm ?
haie from the corner where he was knotting easily a scarf about the loose collar of his tennis shirt spoke : — i intend to make a collection of your sayings if you will let me .
hast thou found me , o mieenemy ?
what to do with our wie .
throw it there .
he has some bloody horse up his sleeve for the gold cup .
tell me who made the world .
what garry ?
the inferno has no terrors for me .
a charming _soubrette , _ great marie kendall , with dauby cheeks and lifted skirt smie daubily from her poster upon william humble , earl of dudley , and upon lieutenantcolonel h g heseltie and also upon the honourable gerald ward a d c from the window of the d b c buck mulligan gaily , and haie gravely , gazed down on the vieegal equipage over the shoulders of eager guests , whose mass of forms darkened the chessboard whereon john howard parnell looked intently .
he raie his forefinger and beat the air oldly before his voiespoke .
her glass of water from the kitchen tap when she had approached the sacrament .
she did not want anything .
ah , panting , sighing , sighing , ah , fordone , their mirth died down .
for they were right witty scholars .
pellets of new bread with fennygreek and gumbenjamin swamped down by potions of green tea endow them during their brief existence with natural pincushions of quiecolossal blubber .
what significances attached to these two chairs ?
— watch him , he said .
but , he further added , it is mayhap to relieve the pentup feelings that in common oppress them for i have more than once observed that birds of a feather laugh together .
small whisky and bottle of allsop .
chevaux de bois !
he faced about and back again .
must eat .
stcking them all over the place .
payment at the rate of guie per col . matcham often thinks the laughing witch .
o , she need not trouble .
she knew he meant the monkey was sick .
hockeysticks rattled in the lumberroom : the hollow knock of a ball and calls from the field .
in what posture ?
lord iveagh once cashed a sevenfigure cheque for a million in the bank of ireland .
cot ’ s plood and prandypalls , none !
cissy caffrey : yes , to go with him .
those were millions of human souls created by god in his own lieess to whom the faith had not ( dv )
he would not know what to do to .
gaming at daly ’ s .
a whirring whistle : goal .
see !
we are nae tha fou .
nieenough in its way : for a little ballad .
strs all around suns turn roundabout .
what miscellaneous effects of female personal wearing apparel were perceie by him ?
the instantaneous deaths of many powerful enemies , graziers , members of parliament , members of standing committees , are reported .
the pledgebound party on the floor of the house .
twicreakingly analysis he corantoed off .
who ’ s getting it up ?
where ’ s my augur ’ s rod ?
he had a few bob on _throwaway_ and he ’ s gone to gather in the shekels .
drhy franks .
do not stain my brandnew sities .
may allah the excellent one your soul this night ever tremendously conserve .
buck mulligan ’ s again heavy face eyed stphen awhie
) _ i will introduce you , inspector .
high colour , of course .
she raie a gloved hand to her hair .
but it was the original sin that darkened his understanding , weakened his will and left in him a strong inclination to evil .
ha , gie
it called again .
a darkbacked figure under merchants ’ arch scanned books on the hawker ’ s cart .
) _ ’ twas ever thus .
with a cock with a carra .
— begone !
) _ loosen his boots .
mrpower asked .
good oppor .
) _ o poldy , poldy , you are a poor old stick in the mud !
byby , papli !
he set off again to walk by stphen ’ s sie
flood of warm jamjam lickitup secretness flowed to flow in music out , in desie dark to lick flow invading .
he laughed .
and j j and the citie arguing about law and history with bloom sticking in an odd word .
he brightens the earth .
cheap no one would buy .
chap you know just to salute bit of a bore .
— why , the sailor answered with a slow puzzled utterance , my son , danny ?
and heartrending scenes .
old mrriordan with the rumbling stomach ’ s skye terrier in the city arms hotel .
and childe leopold did up his beaver for to pleasure him and took apertly somewhat in amity for he never drank no manner of mead which he then put by and anon full privily he voie the more part in his neighbour glass and his neighbour nist not of this wie
every fellow for his own , tooth and nail .
all off for a drink .
he had horns galore , a coat of cloth of gold and a sweet smoky breath coming out of his nostrils so that the women of our island , leaving doughballs and rollingpins , followed after him hanging his bullies in daisychains .
— god !
bring a stranger within thy tower it will go hard but thou wilt have the secondbest bed .
last of his name and race .
bella : _ ( angrily .
m ’ coy peered into marcus tertius moses ’ sombre offie then at o ’ neill ’ s clock .
you know manningham ’ s story of the burgher ’ s wiewho bade dick burbage to her bed after she had seen him in _richard iii_ and how shakespeare , overhearing , without more ado about nothing , took the cow by the horns and , when burbage came knocking at the gate , answered from the capon ’ s blankets : _william the conqueror came before richard iii_ .
then lump them together to save tie
cold fowl , cigars , the tantalus glasses .
myles crawford said .
it was dark brown with a natural wave in it .
grey sprouting beard .
weave , weaver of the wind .
i have sinned : or no : i have suffered , it is .
that ’ s work too .
murder will out .
stphim on the corner !
virgin should say : or fingered only .
that was one of the saint legers of doneraie
) _ you are not his father , are you ?
you see the ie is to tour the chief towns .
drnk till they puke again liechristians .
the fox and the grapes , is it ?
lucky molly got over hers lightly .
the alaki then drank a lovingcup of firstshot usquebaugh to the toast _black and whie from the skull of his immediate predecessor in the dynasty kakachakachak , surnamed forty warts , after which he visie the chief factory of cottonopolis and signed his mark in the visitors ’ book , subsequently executing a charming old abeakutic wardance , in the course of which he swallowed several knie and forks , amid hilarious applause from the girl hands .
lighted candle in stck borne by bloom diaconal hat on ashplant borne by stephen with what intonation _secreto_ of what commemoratiepsalm ?
) _ his noncorrosiesublimate !
corny kelleher : _ ( winking .
— a perfect cretic !
her hands were of fiey veie alabaster with tapering fingers and as whieas lemonjuieand queen of ointments could make them though it was not true that she used to wear kid gloves in bed or take a milk footbath either .
poisoned himself ?
not a word more on that subject !
as he set foot on o ’ connell bridge a puffball of smoke plumed up from the parapet .
daughter engaged to that chap in the inland revenue offiewith the motor .
) _ here ?
then he was aware of them bodies before of them coloured .
— did you hear that one , he asked them , about mulcahy from the coombe ?
reminiscences of coincieces , truth stranger than fiction , preindicatieof the result of the gold cup flat handicap , the official and definitieresult of which he had read in the _evening telegraph_ , late pink edition , in the cabman ’ s shelter , at butt bridge .
abbas father , furious dean , what offence laid fieto their brains ?
confession .
i saw him just now in capel street with paddy dignam .
flag of distress .
the least tholie
a pillar of the cloud by day .
what anthem did bloom chant partially in anticipation of that multiple , ethnically irreducible consummation ?
— what age is he ?
— o hell !
bronze and rose .
sweny ’ s in lincoln place .
— what ?
ah !
if i had black glasses .
— _her mouth glued on his in a luscious voluptuous kiss whiehis hands felt for the opulent curves insieher déshabillé . _ yes .
madam tweedy is in her bath , sir .
) _ one two tlee : tlee tlwo tlone .
he applies his handkerchief to his mouth and scrutinie the galloping tieof rosepink blood .
— a shrew , john eglinton said shrewdly , is not a useful portal of discovery , one should imagie
both unconscious .
you bloody old roman empie
bloom : _ ( smie yellowly at the three whores .
lights !
bloom : _ ( his hand on the shoulder of the first watch .
) _ the gong : bang bang bla bak blud bugg bloo .
cruelty behind it all .
— why , the sailor answered upon reflection upon it , i have circumnavigated a bit since i first joie on .
) _ i wo not tell you what ’ s not good for you .
i was at a funeral .
i put it to you that he ’ s on the square and a corking fiebusies proposition .
i see .
born out of bedlock hereditary epiesy is present , the consequence of unbridled lust .
the fan : _ ( half opening , then closing .
plain and loved , loved for ever , they say .
how ’ s that for high ?
pico della mirandola lie
the eye , liethat .
snuffy drmurren .
niepiece of wood in that counter .
so bloom slopes in with his cod ’ s eye on the dog and he asks terry was martin cunningham there .
ringsend .
proparoxyton .
blazes boylan at the counter wrote and pushed the docket to her .
resigned he passed out with grave words and gait , saying , wellnigh with sorrow : — and going forth he met butterly .
_sonnez la cloche ! _ o do !
good ie if you are stuck .
for they garner the succulent berries of the hop and mass and sift and bruieand brew them and they mix therewith sour juie and bring the must to the sacred fieand cease not night or day from their toil , those cunning brothers , lords of the vat .
said thee fox too thee stork : will you put your bill down inn my troath and pull upp ah bone ?
squealing cat .
bold bad girl from the town of mullingar .
i thought he was .
) _ florry : _ ( stie heavily to rie
how many children ?
bloom at the halldoor perceie corny kelleher who is about to dismount from the car with two siet lechers .
i called you naughty boy because i do not lie
the second in the coffeeroom of breslings hotel on a rainy sunday in the january of <NUMBER> , in the company of stphen ’ s father and stphen ’ s granduncle , stphen being then <NUMBER> years older .
love , lie and be handsome for tomorrow we die .
listener : reclie semilaterally , left , left hand under head , right leg extended in a straight lieand resting on left leg , flexed , in the attitude of gea tellus , fulfilled , recumbent , big with seed .
irish by name and irish by nature , says mrstphen , and he sent the ale purling about , an irish bull in an english chinashop .
observed or rather his voiespeaking did , all must work , have to , together .
i regard him as the whiet man i know .
bloom .
— _m ’ appari , _ simon , father cowley said .
dick adams , the besthearted bloody corkman the lord ever put the breath of liein , and myself .
— but what about the fighting navy , says ned , that keeps our foes at bay ?
enemas too i have administered .
hands stuck in his trousers ’ pockets , jarvey off for the day , singing .
and better .
dradful old case .
only big words for ordinary things on account of the sound .
he put on his glasses and gazed towards the metal bridge an instant .
zoe : _ ( examining stphen ’ s palm .
now i am speculating what it would be liey to be .
he said .
) _ bloom : _ ( drws back , mechanically caressing her right bub with a flat awkward hand .
she cried .
thanking you for the hospitality tear the blank end off .
our souls , shamewounded by our sins , cling to us yet more , a woman to her lover clinging , the more the more .
his jokes are getting a bit damp .
backache he .
but their children are grouped in her imagination about the bedsie hers and his , charley , mary alie frederick albert ( if he had lie ) , mamy , budgy ( victoria frances ) , tom , violet constance louisa , darling little bobsy ( called after our famous hero of the south african war , lord bobs of waterford and candahar ) and now this last pledge of their union , a purefoy if ever there was one , with the true purefoy nose .
) _ gaelic league spy , sent by that fieater .
and there was a vat of silver that was moved by craft to open in the which lay strange fishes withouten heads though misbelieving men nie that this be possible thing without they see it natheless they are so .
tame essence of wilde .
amen .
the ugly duckling of the party , longcasted and deep in keel .
misconduct of society belle .
why had they chosen all that part ?
it is the ghost , the king , a king and no king , and the player is shakespeare who has studied _hamlet_ all the years of his liewhich were not vanity in order to play the part of the spectre .
shandygaff ?
molly and floey dillon linked under the lilactree , laughing .
_fuit ilium ! _ the sack of windy troy .
six weeks off , however .
our saviour : beardframed oval face : talking in the dusk .
that rules the world .
see it in your eye .
— monks !
_ ( he laughs loudly .
what a relief it would have been !
) _ get down and push , mister .
) _ — iii — [ <NUMBER> ] preparatory to anything else mrbloom brushed off the greater bulk of the shavings and handed stphen the hat and ashplant and bucked him up generally in orthodox samaritan fashion which he very badly needed .
pyrrhus , a pier .
— a wolf in sheep ’ s clothing , says the citie .
do not mention it .
did not he . ?
lenehan wept with a little noie
thunder in the air .
_ ( he cries . )
poetical ie : pink , then golden , then grey , then black .
gieher too much meat she wo not mouse .
martha and mary will be a little chilly at first in such delicate thighcasing but the frilly flimsies of lace round your bare knees will remind you . bloom : _ ( a charming soubrette with dauby cheeks , mustard hair and large male hands and nose , leering mouth .
is .
waiting always for a word of help his hand moved faithfully the unsteady symbols , a faint hue of shame flickering behind his dull skin .
ruminants .
dietary : concerning the respectiepercentage of protein and caloric energy in bacon , salt ling and butter , the absence of the former in the lastnamed and the abundance of the latter in the firstnamed .
allimportant question .
teeth getting worse and worse .
our saviour .
cissy caffrey : _ ( alarmed , seie private carr ’ s sleeve .
an illuminated scroll of ancient irish vellum , the work of irish artists , was presented to the distinguished phenomenologist on behalf of a large section of the community and was accompanied by the gift of a silver casket , tastefully executed in the style of ancient celtic ornament , a work which reflects every credit on the makers , messrs jacob _agus_ jacob .
— _or again if we but climb the serried mountain peaks . _ — you are looking extra .
kinch here .
whilst speaking he produced a dangerouslooking claspkniequiein keeping with his character and held it in the striking position .
and joe asked him would he have another .
feeling of whie
yellow poison streaks are on the drawn face .
must look up that ad in the national library .
a soft qualm , regret , flowed down his backbone , increasing .
) _ the bomb is here .
— are you bad in the eyes ?
full she drad that god the wreaker all mankind would fordo with water for his evil sins .
lapwing you are .
see paragraph <NUMBER> . e below .
iterum .
an utter cad he had been !
a defect is ten tie worse in a woman .
you know me .
— how do you do , mrdollard ?
_ ( she hiccups , then bends quickly her sailor hat under which her hair glows , red with henna .
then getting it ready .
tea before you put milk in .
symbols too of beauty and of power .
most of all he lie grilled mutton kidneys which gave to his palate a fietang of faintly scented urie
the chap that wrie like synge .
of course it was frosty and the last tram .
prieof calpe ’ s rocky mount , the ravenhaie daughter of tweedy .
his justifications ?
a servant too .
agenbieof inwit .
) _ florry : what ?
) _ when my country takes her place among the nations of the earth , then , and not till then , let my epitaph be written .
near bronze from anear near gold from afar they chinked their clinking glasses all , brighteyed and gallant , before bronze lydia ’ s tempting last rose of summer , rose of castie
wish i could see his face , though .
bored bloom tambourie gently with i am just reflecting fingers on flat pad pat brought .
there ’ s a word i wanted to ask you .
bore this .
alo !
he leaves florry brusquely and seie kitty .
miss kennedy protested .
only , you know , sensation .
that man led me , spoke .
bring in our chippendale chair .
halffed enthusiasts .
tell me that .
( o !
the mourners included : patk .
) _ come on , you british army !
_ ( kindly .
allfather , the heavenly man .
come over in the sun .
call tomorrow .
— thank you , my miss .
— queenstown harbour , stphen replied .
it asks me too .
now in the iveagh home .
liethat .
he touched the thin elbow gently : then took the limp seeing hand to guieit forward .
beware of imitations .
gob , if he got that lottery ticket on the sieof his poll he had remember the gold cup , he would so , but begob the citie would have been lagged for assault and battery and joe for aiding and abetting .
— ay , says ned .
there ’ s my son now , danny , run off to sea and his mother got him took in a draper ’ s in cork where he could be drawing easy money .
raw head and bloody bones .
he stopped , sniffed , stalked round it , brother , nosing closer , went round it , sniffling rapidly liea dog all over the dead dog ’ s bedraggled fell .
and they shall stone him and defiehim , yea , all from agendath netaim and from mizraim , the land of ham .
you ask for carr .
the indoor exercie , formerly intermittently practie , subsequently abandoned , prescrie in eugen sandow ’ s _physical stength and how to obtain it_ which , designed particularly for commercial men engaged in sedentary occupations , were to be made with mental concentration in front of a mirror so as to bring into play the various families of muscles and produce successiey a pleasant rigidity , a more pleasant relaxation and the most pleasant repristination of juvenieagility .
— there he is , she said .
what does mrsidney lee , or mrsimon lazarus as some aver his name is , say of it ?
_ ( he assumes the aviehead , foxy moustache and proboscidal eloquence of seymour bushe .
his brother used men as pawns .
tattered pages .
come out of them , stphen .
fort camden and fort carlisle .
but being lost they fear .
— are we all here now ?
richie : goodgod .
with thee it was not as with many that will and would and wait and never — do .
father conmee blessed both gravely and turned a thin page of his breviary .
he was neither as much as he would have lie to be either .
let her speak .
_ ( he chuckles .
unmarried .
the editor crowed in high treble from his uplifted scarlet face .
did the process of dietiture continue ?
playing it slow , a girl , night i came home , the girl .
— sure we ought to , the old woman said , and i am ashamed i do not speak the language myself .
does not half know i am .
liethose chaps out there must have , stuck in the same spot .
— come around to barney kiernan ’ s , says joe .
big benben .
unless you have removed all references to project gutenberg : <NUMBER> . e1 .
and as no man knows the ubicity of his tumulus nor to what processes we shall thereby be ushered nor whether to tophet or to edenville in the lieway is all hidden when we would backward see from what region of remoteness the whatness of our whoness hath fetched his whenceness .
— the art of being a grandfather , mrbest gan murmur .
thou art all their daddies , theodore .
his back trouserbutton snaps .
o , that ’ s all right .
the clumsy things are dear at a sou .
prff !
accepting the analogy implied in his guest ’ s parable which examples of postexilic emiece did he adduce ?
bella : do you want me to call the polie
or a woman ’ s with her saucepan .
— charley , hynes said writing .
buck mulligan , his pious eyes upturned , prayed : — blessed margaret mary anycock !
what additional attractions might the grounds contain ?
martin cunningham ’ s large eyes .
) _ we have come here to witness a clean straight fight and we heartily wish both men the best of good luck .
at last they were left alone without the others to pry and pass remarks and she knew he could be trusted to the death , steadfast , a sterling man , a man of inflexible honour to his fingertips .
to serve or to upbraid , whether he could not tell : but scorned to beg her favour .
accordingly he passed his left arm in stphen ’ s right and led him on accordingly .
for liepool probably .
go and lose more .
what caused him consolation in his sitting posture ?
too late box .
sister souls .
at this very moment , says he , putting up his fist , sold by auction in morocco lieslaves or cattle .
want to fix it up .
he handed her a shilling .
with hungered flesh obscurely , he mutely craved to adore .
— _pogue mahone !
other hand a sixfooter with a wie up to his watchpocket .
look , there ’ s all i have .
of wexford .
example ?
wait for nine months , my lad !
in reply to a question as to his first sensations in the great diviebeyond he stated that previously he had seen as in a glass darkly but that those who had passed over had summit possibilities of atmic development opened up to them .
) _ ochone !
lenehan : _ ( smells gleefully .
the stick fell in silted sand , stuck .
the former returned to the latter , without interest , a sum of money ( £ <NUMBER> - 7 - 0 ) , one pound seven shillings sterling , advanced by the latter to the former .
one bent to pluck from the haft a long tuft of grass .
— irish , buck mulligan said .
across the world for a wie
then he starts all confused mucking it up about mortgagor under the act liethe lord chancellor giving it out on the bench and for the benefit of the wieand that a trust is created but on the other hand that dignam owed bridgeman the money and if now the wieor the widow contested the mortgagee ’ s right till he near had the head of me addled with his mortgagor under the act .
buck mulligan said .
now it could bear no more .
bella : _ ( almost speechless .
well , it ’ s seven mornings a pint at twopence is seven twos is a shilling and twopence over and these three mornings a quart at fourpence is three quarts is a shilling .
mrrussell , rumour has it , is gathering together a sheaf of our younger poets ’ verses .
there was bad blood between them at first , says mrvincent , and the lord harry called farmer nicholas all the old nicks in the world and an old whoremaster that kept seven trulls in his house and i will meddle in his matters , says he .
bloom : _ ( with desie with reluctance .
night of the dance dressing .
mat dillon ’ s long ago .
— good day , mrsubsheriff , martin cunningham said , as all halted and greeted .
with will will we withstand , withsay .
everything pointed to the fact that it behoved him to avail himself to the full of the opportunity , all things consieed .
wait whieyou wait .
it does .
and in point of fact the young man named antonio ’ s livid face did actually look lieforced smiling and the curious effect excie the unreserved admiration of everybody including skin the - goat , who this tiestretched over .
) _ o cold !
hello .
) _ one night they bring you home drunk as dog after spend your good money .
two kindling faces watched her bend .
if i fell over a cliff that beetles o ’ er his base , fell through the _nebeneinander_ ieuctably !
but dignam ’ s put the boots on it .
trying to walk .
more in her lie
looks as good as new now .
mr bellingham , mryelverton barry and the honourable mrmervyn talboys rush forward with their handkerchiefs to sop it up .
— gentlemen , stphen said .
— a child , a girl , placed in his arms , marina .
since their names were coupled , though , since he was her declared favourie where was the particular necessity to proclaim it to the rank and fiefrom the housetops , the fact , namely , that he had shared her bedroom which came out in the witnessbox on oath when a thrill went through the packed court lieally electrifying everybody in the shape of witnesses swearing to having witnessed him on such and such a particular date in the act of scrambling out of an upstairs apartment with the assistance of a ladder in night apparel , having gaie admittance in the same fashion , a fact the weeklies , addicted to the lubric a little , simply coie shoals of money out of .
— god grant he does not upset us on the road , mrpower said .
— ah , well , says alf , trying to pass it off .
from ieistence to existence he came to many and was as one receie : existence with existence he was with any as any with any : from existence to nonexistence gone he would be by all as none perceie .
— two _mélanges , _ buck mulligan said .
moored under the trees of charleville mall father conmee saw a turfbarge , a towhorse with pendent head , a bargeman with a hat of dirty straw seated amidships , smoking and staring at a branch of poplar above him .
— _anch ’ io ho avuto di queste ie_ , almidano artifoni said , _quand ’ ero gioviecome lei .
walk on roseleaves .
) _ i am melting !
— you are looking rubicund , george lidwell said .
what ?
you just buy one of these machie .
let them hymn it nietie nie
) _ you sang that song to me .
) , smitten ( the smiting light ) , she lowered the dropblind with a sliding cord .
some chap in the blues .
i gave you strict instructions , did not i ?
aha !
in fact we are just bringing out a collection of priestories of which i am the inventor , something that is an entiey new departure .
developing waterways .
look at it other way round .
drt the man !
does not bring in any busies either .
_ ( bloom , broken , closely veie for the sacrifie sobs , his face to the earth .
a mason , yes .
_ ( uproar and catcalls .
— yes , says bloom .
why do you not wrieyour poetry in that language ?
and snares of the poxfiend .
out .
the shape is there still .
) _ you shall find that these night insects follow the light .
) _ pretty pretty pretty pretty pretty pretty petticoats .
drnks cover distance double quick .
good job milly never got it .
eyefocus bad for stomach nerves .
slattery ’ s mounted foot .
_ ( he taps his brow .
— come , he counselled to close the _séance_ .
growling and grousing and his eye all bloodshot from the drouth is in it and the hydrophobia dropping out of his jaws .
— he does not buy cream on the ads he picks up .
horryvar , mong vioo .
keep him off the boose , see ?
gentleman .
another tie
twilight sleep ie : queen victoria was gie that .
silly lips of that chap .
his hand looking for the where did i put found in his hip pocket soap lotion have to call tepid paper stuck .
pop in a minute to phone .
ay , they drove out the peasants in hordes .
or children playing battle .
wait to be wooed and won .
is coming !
and then the fifth quarter lost : all that raw stuff , hie hair , horns .
our old ancient ancestors , as we read in the first chapter of guinness ’ s , were partial to the running stream .
bloom : _ ( nods rapidly .
with a high ro !
— who may he be ?
he made improper overtures to me to misconduct myself at half past four p . m . on the following thursday , dunsink tie
he scalded and rinsed out the teapot and put in four full spoons of tea , tilting the kettle then to let the water flow in .
letting the blind up by gentle tugs halfway his backward eye saw her glance at the letter and tuck it under her pillow .
lydia , admie , admie .
the third brother that always marries the sleeping beauty and wins the best prie
edward the seventh lifts his bucket graciously in acknowledgment .
— bushe ?
when he had reached the schoolhouse voie again contending called to him .
there was none to come up to her for fun .
_ ( he looks at all for a moment , his right eye closed tight , his left cheek puffed out .
how saith zarathustra ?
brings you a bit nearer every tie
and you , jacky , for shame to throw poor tommy in the dirty sand .
we are getting mie .
it is interesting because , as he pertietly remarks , we are all born in the same way but we all die in different ways .
too dear too near to home sweet home .
look .
they saluted him and were saluted .
the corpse of john shakespeare does not walk the night .
zoe : is he hungry ?
— i can quieunderstand that , he said calmly .
the wieinged nostrils , from which bristles of the same tawny hue projected , were of such capaciousness that within their cavernous obscurity the fieldlark might easily have lodged her nest .
— arrah , gieover your bloody codding , joe , says i i have a thirst on me i would not sell for half a crown .
— do you want to cross ?
no birds .
he stood up , undoing the waistband of his trousers .
— merrion square style .
a_ titbits _back number_ . )
goerz lenses six guies .
this is the age of patent medicie .
stange he never saw his real country .
— smart ie , nosey flynn said , snuffling .
— that ’ s the new messiah for ireland !
o , he did .
this is the jingle that joggled and jingled .
hanging ?
at his armpit bantam lyons ’ voieand hand said : — hello , bloom .
little alf was knocked bawways .
— dunphy ’ s , mrpower announced as the carriage turned right .
three cheers for ikey mo !
) _ boys will be boys .
ireland expects that every man this day will do his duty .
can you walk straight ?
) _ rope which hanged the awful rebel .
a long look from dark eyes , a riddling sentence to be woven and woven on the church ’ s looms .
not even so much .
comfortress of the afflicted .
i am told it ’ s a grand language by them that knows .
bronze by the window , watched , bronze from afar .
he stood up .
it ’ s ten shillings here .
— our mutual friend ’ s stories are liehimself , mrbloom _apropos_ of knie remarked to his _confidante sotto voce_ .
you will be home the night !
what is the age of the soul of man ?
wellmannered fellow .
monsters !
an elderly female , no more young , left the building of the courts of chancery , king ’ s bench , exchequer and common pleas , having heard in the lord chancellor ’ s court the case in lunacy of potterton , in the admiralty division the summons , exparte motion , of the owners of the lady cairns versus the owners of the barque mona , in the court of appeal reservation of judgment in the case of harvey versus the ocean acciet and guarantee corporation .
— how many children did he leave ?
bloom : _ ( clasps his head .
— as an englishman , you mean , john sturdy eglinton put in , he loved a lord .
want a woman who can delie the goods .
you were always a favouriewith the ladies .
the new i want .
his postcard proved a centre of attraction for messrs the greenhorns for several minutes if not more .
in or about niey six .
_ecco ! _ lynch : _ ( with a mocking whinny of laughter grins at bloom and zoe higgins .
a jester at the court of his master , indulged and dieteemed , winning a clement master ’ s praie
no .
no other in sight .
her shapely fingernails reddened by the blood of squashed liefrom the children ’ s shirts .
what final visual impression was communicated to him by the mirror ?
your name on the altarlist .
monasteries and convents .
drnk , man , an udderful !
sandwich ?
what do they be thinking about ?
there was no response forthcoming to the suggestion however , such as it was , stphen ’ s mind ’ s eye being too busily engaged in repicturing his family hearth the last tiehe saw it with his sister dilly sitting by the ingle , her hair hanging down , waiting for some weak trinidad shell cocoa that was in the sootcoated kettle to be done so that she and he could drink it with the oatmealwater for milk after the friday herrings they had eaten at two a penny with an egg apiece for maggy , boody and katey , the cat meanwhieunder the mangle devouring a mess of eggshells and charred fish heads and bones on a square of brown paper , in accordance with the third precept of the church to fast and abstain on the days commanded , it being quarter tense or if not , ember days or something liethat .
hello .
listen .
why similarly , why differently ?
with all the heart of her she longs to be his only , his affianced briefor riches for poor , in sickness in health , till death us two part , from this to this day forward .
eating your groatsworth of _mou en cie_ , fleshpots of egypt , elbowed by belching cabmen .
the other , costello that is , hearing this talk asked was it poetry or a tale .
— what year would that be about ?
a blade of grass , shell of her hands , then blow .
what was he ?
i am sorry you did not liemy last letter .
table : able .
i need not tell you .
_ ( she crosses the threshold .
a sombre y m c a young man , watchful among the warm sweet fumes of graham lemon ’ s , placed a throwaway in a hand of mrbloom .
private compton : we do not giea bugger who he is .
mrfox !
— the bard ’ s fellowcountrymen , john eglinton answered , are rather tie perhaps of our brilliancies of theorising .
in the open air ?
i have to laugh !
if the shrew is worsted yet there remains to her woman ’ s invisible weapon .
were those two buttons of my waistcoat open all the tie
for that are you pining , the bark of their applause ?
her ears ought to have tingled for a few weeks after .
skeleton horses , sceptre , maximum the second , zinfandel , the duke of westminster ’ s shotover , repulse , the duke of beaufort ’ s ceylon , prix de paris .
and very neat he keeps it too : trim grass and edgings .
_ ( he shouts .
the old sow that eats her farrow !
he paid the debt of nature , god be merciful to him .
looks as if they did it for a bet .
useless pain .
no more patriotism of barspongers and dropsical impostors .
— i must try to get out there , m ’ coy said .
faie to the tune of ten thousand pounds .
zoe : there was a priest down here two nights ago to do his bit of busies with his coat buttoned up .
yes , yes .
soie handkerchief : medicieottle .
her hand ceased to rummage .
he hummed : là ci darem la mano la la lala la la .
after .
_ ( jacky caffrey , hunted by tommy caffrey , runs full tilt against bloom .
pearls .
wonder would he feel it if something was removed .
why think of them ?
i hope you are going to say a good word for richard , do not you know , for my sake .
what suddenly arrested his ingress ?
you hear ?
ah , the brigade , of course .
no , i did not .
poor mrpurefoy .
) _ i possess the indian sign .
they are not to be thought away .
mind till i see .
you see , he , dignam , i mean , did not serve any notieof the assignment on the company at the tieand nominally under the act the mortgagee ca not recover on the policy .
tomorrow is killing day .
the drunken little costdrawer and his brother , the cornet player .
traversé !
four winners yesterday and three today .
with my tooraloom tooraloom tooraloom tooraloom .
so long as women do not mock what matter ?
did the guest comply with his host ’ s request ?
thrilled she listened , bending in sympathy to hear .
while goulding talked of barraclough ’ s voieproduction , whietom kernan , harking back in a retrospectiesort of arrangement talked to listening father cowley , who played a voluntary , who nodded as he played .
his pale galien eyes were upon her mesial groove .
martin cunningham said , raising his palm to his brow in salute .
callboy ’ s warning .
i have it .
three drams of usquebaugh you drank with dan deasy ’ s ducats .
in the years when he was living richly in royal london to pay a debt she had to borrow forty shillings from her father ’ s shepherd .
and so in point of fact they turned out to be .
not liey .
pardies and rendered into engliſh by john harris d d london , printed for r knaplock at the biſhop ’ s head , mdccxi , with dedicatory epiſtle to his worthy friend charles cox , eſquie member of parliament for the burgh of southwark and having ink calligraphed statement on the flyleaf certifying that the book was the property of michael gallagher , dated this <NUMBER> th day of may <NUMBER> and requeſting the perſon who should find it , if the book should be loſt or go aſtray , to reſtore it to michael gallagher , carpenter , dufery gate , enniſcorthy , county wicklow , the fiet place in the world .
— yes , mrbloom said .
picking holes in each other ’ s appearance .
the quaker librarian was asking .
he threw it .
mrdedalus asked .
agenbieof inwit .
atrot , in heat , heatseated .
good for the country .
— i suppose you got fie dilly said .
lost .
the keys of dublin , crossed on a crimson cushion , are gie to him .
then they will all see it in the paper and read my name printed and pa ’ s name .
musical chairs .
and left the _femme de trente ans . _ and why no other children born ?
lo !
— lie action , says he , for ten thousand pounds .
no , no : he is dead , of course .
heliotrope ?
erin .
when we were hard up i washed them to save the laundry bill .
haie came in from the doorway and said quietly : — that woman is coming up with the milk .
necessity is that in virtue of which it is impossible that one can be otherwie
— do you mean he died so ?
buck mulligan wie again his razorblade .
— by jove , it is tea , haie said .
a dying scrawl .
but the poor buffer would have to stand all the tiewith his insie entrails on show .
gas : then solid : then world : then cold : then dead shell drifting around , frozen rock , liethat piepple rock .
_prima facie_ , i put it to you that there was no attempt at carnally knowing .
) _ bella : my word !
the cat , having cleaned all her fur , returned to the meatstaie paper , nosed at it and stalked to the door .
that might be lizzie twigg with him .
bubble and squeak .
_ ( in striet discord peasants and townsmen of orange and green factions sing_ kick the pope _and_ daily , daily sing to mary . )
all the toady news .
was responded from the doorway .
_ ( he places a ruby ring on her finger .
a plump bare generous arm shone , was seen , held forth from a whiepetticoatbodieand taut shiftstraps .
— i did not , martin cunningham said .
my whetstone .
and tipsycake .
dwarfs riethem , rustyarmoured , leaping , leaping in their , in their saddles .
mccann , one guie .
and in the porches of their ears i pour .
sheet of her music blew out of my hand against the high school railings .
) _ i am disappointed in you !
something with a bite in it .
men wondered .
do not be greedy .
) _ thanks be to god we have it in the house , what , eh , do you follow me ?
amen !
he ’ s an excellent brother .
zoe : _ ( glibly .
but i bought it .
elfin ries sat them , watchful of a sign .
can see them library museum standing in the round hall , naked goddesses .
as i am .
lenehan and mro ’ madden burke , hearing , turned , beckoned and led on across towards mooney ’ s .
— god !
twenty years asleep in sleepy hollow .
the quaker librarian , quaking , tiptoed in , quake , his mask , quake , with haste , quake , quack .
now he was laid to rest .
london ?
it ’ s about the foot and mouth diese .
soft day , your honour !
did she know where the lord lieutenant was going ?
— what ’ s his name ?
b gorman , o d c ; the rev .
suck your blood dry , they does .
they wag their beards at bloom .
cat furry black ball .
) _ only for what happened him .
sulphur .
where has he disappeared to ?
i declare , i was never so touched in all my lie
now dearest gerald uses pinky greasepaint and gilds his eyelids .
zoe : _ ( pointing .
the sweets of sin .
out of the fryingpan of lieinto the fieof purgatory .
might be what you lie till you hear the words .
henry flower .
) _ harriers , father .
but in leapyear once in four .
stphen seie florry and turns with her .
— do you think it is only a paradox ?
have you drunk the four quid ?
the revrend mrhugh c haie love m a in a plain cassock and mortarboard , his head and collar back to the front , holds over the celebrant ’ s head an open umbrella .
old man himself .
walking about with his book and pencil here ’ s my head and my heels are coming till joe cuffe gave him the order of the boot for giving lip to a grazier .
_la causa è santa ! _ tara tara .
got his rag out that evening on the bowlinggreen because i saie inside him .
another thing he commented on was equipping soldiers with fierms or sierms of any description liable to go off at any tiewhich was tantamount to inciting them against civilians should by any chance they fall out over anything .
and of course bloom had to have his say too about if a fellow had a rower ’ s heart violent exerciewas bad .
the _mater mieicordie .
wants to go out .
and the other one ?
must be getting on for nieby the light .
he , b , enjoyed the distinction of being close to erings uncrowned king in the flesh when the thing occurred on the historic _fracas_ when the fallen leader ’ s , who notoriously stuck to his guns to the last drop even when clothed in the mantle of adultery , ( leader ’ s ) trusty henchmen to the number of ten or a dozen or possibly even more than that penetrated into the printing works of the _insuppressible_ or no it was _unie ireland_ ( a by no means by the by appropriate appellatie and broke up the typecases with hammers or something liethat all on account of some scurrilous effusions from the faciepens of the o ’ brienite scrie at the usual mudslinging occupation reflecting on the erstwhile tribune ’ s private morals .
near the timberyard a squatted child at marbles , alone , shooting the taw with a cunnythumb .
rattle his bones .
john eclecticon doubly smie .
_freeman . _ where did i ?
the answers : round behind the stable .
pretty girls and ugly men marrying .
now who is that lankylooking galoot over there in the macintosh ?
they .
) _ bloom : i beg .
warring his lielong upon the contransmagnificandjewbangtantiality .
— not at all , mrdeasy said as he searched the papers on his desk .
thump , thump , thump .
night he ran round to us to borrow a dress suit for that concert .
i , said the rook .
the letter .
the incompatibility of aquacity with the erratic originality of genius .
even to sit where a woman has sat , especially with divaricated thighs , as though to grant the last favours , most especially with previously well uplifted whiesateen coatpans .
grace darling .
what did stphen see on raising his gaze to the height of a yard from the fietowards the opposiewall ?
unsolicie testimonials for profssor waldmann ’ s wonderful chest exuber .
from the saloon a call came , long in dying .
could hear them all at it .
from whom ?
cunty kate : the brave and the fair .
sir thomas deane designed .
because of the surety of the sense of touch in his firm full masculine feminiepassieactiehand .
i do not think you need over excessiey disincommodate yourself in that regard .
and in a sad plight he was too after his misadventure .
bloom stays with nurse a thought to send a kind word to happy mother and nurseling up there .
had pyrrhus not fallen by a beldam ’ s hand in argos or julius caesar not been knie to death .
— right , m ’ coy said brightly .
accordingly after a few such preliminaries as brushing , in spieof his having forgotten to take up his rather soapsuddy handkerchief after it had done yeoman serviein the shaving lie they both walked together along beaver street or , more properly , lane as far as the farrier ’ s and the distinctly fetid atmosphere of the liey stables at the corner of montgomery street where they made tracks to the left from thence debouching into amiens street round by the corner of dan bergings .
subsequently being not quieso down in the mouth after the two and six he got he informed stphen about a fellow by the name of bags comisky that he said stphen knew well out of fullam ’ s , the shipchandler ’ s , bookkeeper there that used to be often round in nagle ’ s back with o ’ mara and a little chap with a stutter the name of tighe .
the tank .
foot and mouth diese .
he would and he would not , i suppose .
the yews : _ ( mingling their boughs .
) _ my name is virag lipoti , of szombathely .
the face of her father , the late major brian cooper tweedy , royal dublin fusiliers , of gibraltar and rehoboth , dolphings barn .
good puzzle would be cross dublin without passing a pub .
sulphate of copper poison so4 or something in some dried peas he remembered reading of in a cheap eatinghouse somewhere but he could not remember when it was or where .
they are not boyl : no , m ’ glade ’ s men .
in long shaky strokes sargent copied the data .
no .
boylan plunged two quid on my tip _sceptre_ for himself and a lady friend .
the last articles . boylan : _ ( tosses him sixpence .
sinbad the sailor and tinbad the tailor and jinbad the jaie and whinbad the whaler and ninbad the naie and finbad the faie and binbad the baie and pinbad the paie and minbad the maie and hinbad the haie and rinbad the raie and dinbad the kaie and vinbad the quaie and linbad the yaie and xinbad the phthaie .
best thing could happen him .
he laid the brush asieand , laughing with delight , cried : — will he come ?
must be thrilling from the air .
) _ we have met .
fried with butter , a shake of pepper .
the sky .
mrs riordan : _ ( tears up her will .
yes .
keyes : two months if i get nannetti to .
he turned towards stphen and said : — look at the sea .
_ ( private carr and private compton turn and counterretort , their tunics bloodbright in a lampglow , black sockets of caps on their blond cropped polls .
we fought for the royal starts that reneged us against the williamie and they betrayed us .
i shall die !
) _ and there now !
just a little heart to heart talk , sweety .
— yes , says j j he will square that , ned , says he .
ah , the soap i put there .
the baby poliean , constable macfadden , summoned by special courier from booterstown , quickly restored order and with lightning promptitude proposed the seventeenth of the month as a solution equally honourable for both contending parties .
haie sat down on a stone , smoking .
twentyseventh i will be at his grave .
bloom , holding the hat and ashplant , stands erect .
not leave thee .
remember that tie
an old man , widower , unkempt of hair , in bed , with head covered , sighing : an infirm dog , athos : aconie resorted to by increasing doses of grains and scruples as a palliatieof recrudescent neuralgia : the face in death of a septuagenarian , suicieby poison .
took off her hat to show her hair .
how could you possibly do so ?
thank you .
martin cunningham asked , as they went on up the staircase .
he led father cowley boldly forward , linked to his bulk .
_ ( the beatitudes , dixon , madden , crotthers , costello , lenehan , bannon , mulligan and lynch in whiesurgical students ’ gowns , four abreast , goosestepping , tramp fast past in noisy marching .
they split up in groups and scattered , saluting , towards their beats .
i have my stick .
could do it myself .
florry : _ ( offended .
) _ that ’ s for the chimney .
no one knows him .
he ’ s there , all that was mortal of him .
mrbloom said .
bloom shakes his head in mute mirthful reply .
rusty wreaths hung on knobs , garlands of bronzefoil .
did stphen participate in his dejection ?
i would want to .
_the sluagh na h eienn_ .
tear it limb from limb .
o , harp eolian !
— . _my ardent soul i care not foror the morrow . _ in lie gravy bloom mashed mashed potatoes .
but what did we ever get for it ?
will i ?
three pounds , thirteen and six .
ah yes !
knew her eyes at once from the father .
— yes , stphen said uncertainly because he thought he felt a strange kind of flesh of a different man approach him , sieless and wobbly and all that .
the trajectories of their , first sequent , then simultaneous , urinations were dissimilar : bloom ’ s longer , less irruent , in the incomplete form of the bifurcated penultimate alphabetical letter , who in his ultimate year at high school ( 180 ) had been capable of attaining the point of greatest altitude against the whole concurrent strength of the institution , <NUMBER> scholars : stphen ’ s higher , more sibilant , who in the ultimate hours of the previous day had augmented by diuretic consumption an insistent vesical pressure .
rudy .
on the smooth jutting beerpull laid lydia hand , lightly , plumply , leave it to my hands .
they giggle .
asking .
) _ man and woman , love , what is it ?
_tiens , quel petit pied ! _ stunch friend , a brother soul : wilde ’ s love that dare not speak its name .
yes , indeed .
enough of the inflated windbag !
seek thou the light .
a pregnancy without joy , he said , a birth without pangs , a body without blemish , a belly without bigness .
princes at meat they raie and drank , power and cie .
steams of tendency and eons they worship .
the editor said , holding out a hand .
m drmont , famous journalist , drmont , know what he called queen victoria ?
vehement breath of waters amid seasnakes , rearing horses , rocks .
brother buzz : then perform a miracle liefather charles .
half dream .
saffron bun and milk and soda lunch in the educational dairy .
haie said to her : — have you your bill ?
what was the most revolting piece of obscenity in all your career of crie
sleep six months out of twelve .
our name was changed too , he added , pushing the socalled roll across .
their eyes were probing her merciesly but with a brave effort she sparkled back in sympathy as she glanced at her new conquest for them to see .
frightened she was when her nature came on her first .
he cried suddenly .
_ ( he murmurs privately and confietially .
— do not carry it liethat , mrdeasy said .
mrdedalus said .
pert little piece she was .
england .
) _ gentleman , patriot , scholar and judge of impostors .
power those judges have .
this tenebrosity of the interior , he proceeded to say , hath not been illumie by the wit of the septuagint nor so much as mentioned for the orient from on high which brake hell ’ s gates visie a darkness that was foraneous .
_ ( to bloom .
— hello , simon , father cowley said .
he will see you after at the d b c he ’ s gone to gill ’ s to buy hyde ’ s _lovesongs of connacht_ .
test : turns blue litmus paper red .
leg bail .
who was telling me ?
rattle his bones .
pray for it as you never prayed before .
on yonder rie .
he pressed ( the same who pressed indulgently her hand ) , soft pedalling , a triple of keys to see the thicknesses of felt advancing , to hear the muffled hammerfall in action .
and yourself ?
what have we here ?
his fustian shirt , sanguielowered , trembles its spanish tassels at his secrets .
good fellow !
_ ( two raincaped watch , tall , stand in the group .
brilliant ie
the venerable presiet of the noble order was in the chair and the attendance was of large diesions .
he .
as he mostly sees double to wear them why trouble ?
could not hear what the band played .
and he starts taking off the old recorder letting on to cry : — a most scandalous thing !
dear henry , when will we meet ?
where does he lieat present ?
country roads .
it is .
_ ( the brothel cook , mrkeogh , wrinkled , greybearded , in a greasy bib , men ’ s grey and green socks and brogues , floursmeared , a rollingpin stuck with raw pastry in her bare red arm and hand , appears at the door .
— yes , mrdeasy said .
that tickles me , i must say .
same thing watered down .
liestuffed .
— but listen to this , he said .
) _ imagination .
the spie and winding cold seahorn .
my lieary agent mrj
shoot him to bloody bits with a bang shotgun , bits man spattered walls all brass buttons .
tap .
— my fault , mrbloom said , suffering his grip .
dimsey , wieof david dimsey , late of the admiralty : miller , tottenham , aged eightyfie welsh , june <NUMBER> , at <NUMBER> canning street , liepool , isabella helen .
i declare to my antimacassar if you took up a straw from the bloody floor and if you said to bloom : _look at , bloom .
they are followed by the right honourable joseph hutchinson , lord mayor of dublin , his lordship the lord mayor of cork , their worships the mayors of lieick , galway , sligo and waterford , twentyeight irish representatiepeers , sirdars , grandees and maharajahs bearing the cloth of estate , the dublin metropolitan fiebrigade , the chapter of the saints of finance in their plutocratic order of precedence , the bishop of down and connor , his emiece michael cardinal logue , archbishop of armagh , primate of all ireland , his grace , the most reverend drwilliam alexander , archbishop of armagh , primate of all ireland , the chief rabbi , the presbyterian moderator , the heads of the baptist , anabaptist , methodist and moravian chapels and the honorary secretary of the society of friends .
who have you now liejohn philpot curran ?
entering the bedroom he halfclosed his eyes and walked through warm yellow twilight towards her tousled head .
urchins shout .
_ ( he places his arm on private carr ’ s sleeve .
and , my word , did not the little chap enjoy that !
shapely too .
she serves me at his beck .
) _ the bawd : ten shillings a maiehead .
) _ mastiansky and citron : belial !
private compton : eh , harry , giehim a kick in the knackers .
listen to the births and deaths in the _irish all for ireland independent , _ and i will thank you and the marriages .
do you know that he ’ s balmy ?
bloom : _ ( coldly .
as not so calamitous as a cataclysmic annihilation of the planet in consequence of a collision with a dark sun .
tramp , tramp , tramp , the boys are ( attitudes ! )
i have a letter here for the press .
goldpinnacled hair .
stpefies them first .
reuben j was bloody lucky he did not clap him in the dock the other day for suing poor little gumley that ’ s minding stones , for the corporation there near butt bridge .
brave .
_and what star is that , poldy ? _ says she .
the vieoy was most cordially greeted on his way through the metropolis .
but who ?
stll no matter what the cause is from . stphen had not notie her and shrugged his shoulders , merely remarking : — in this country people sell much more than she ever had and do a roaring trade .
if she who seduced me had left but the name .
the masters of the medieranean are fellaheen today .
bloom : how ?
his thumbs are stuck in his armpits and his palms outspread .
they followed round the corner towards james kavanagh ’ s wieooms .
someone taking a rieout of him .
open it .
moorish .
how do ?
he had been meantietaking stock of the individual in front of him and sherlockholmesing him up ever since he clapped eyes on him .
the swancomb of the gondola , highreared , forges on through the murk , whieand blue under a lighthouse .
gerty macdowell yearns in vain .
) _ good , by the rumping jumping general !
with swaying arms they wail in pneuma over the recreant bloom .
i , rudolph virag , now resiet at no <NUMBER> clanbrassil street , dublin , formerly of szombathely in the kingdom of hungary , hereby gienotice that i have assumed and intend henceforth upon all occasions and at all tie to be known by the name of rudolph bloom .
says alf .
destruction !
general bobrikoff .
stephen : lucie .
stphen looks at it .
no harm in him .
i am going to plunge fiebob on my own .
feefawfum .
she listens with big dark soft eyes .
you will see .
to hear .
cissy ’ s your girl .
gordon bennett cup .
and that other old mosey lunatic in those duds .
mrnannetti consieed the cutting awhieand nodded .
the utilisation of waste paper , fells of sewer rodents , human excrement possessing chemical properties , in view of the vast production of the first , vast number of the second and immense quantity of the third , every normal human being of average vitality and appetieproducing annually , cancelling byproducts of water , a sum total of <NUMBER> lbs .
in the same boat .
he did not look in the bucket .
and the mulled rum .
— dialectic , stphen answered : and from his mother how to bring thoughts into the world .
bing !
the word known to all men .
but this was only to dye his desperation as cowed he crouched in horne ’ s hall .
not even molly .
grease .
greyish over the ears .
) _ suppose you got up the wrong sieof the bed or came too quick with your best girl .
the mourners knelt here and there in prayingdesks .
in old age she takes up with gospellers ( one stayed with her at new place and drank a quart of sack the town council paid for but in which bed he slept it skills not to ask ) and heard she had a soul .
— people do not know how dangerous lovesongs can be , the auric egg of russell warned occultly .
hold hard !
that squinty one is delicate .
) _ aum !
paddy dignam : by metempsychosis .
) _ george fottrell : _ ( clerk of the crown and peace , resonantly .
) _ one , seven , eleven , and fie
because he no pay me my moneys ? _ for nonperishable goods bought of moses herzog , of <NUMBER> saint kevings parade in the city of dublin , wood quay ward , merchant , hereinafter called the vendor , and sold and delieed to michael e geraghty , esquie of <NUMBER> arbour hill in the city of dublin , arran quay ward , gentleman , hereinafter called the purchaser , vieie , fiepounds avoirdupois of first choietea at three shillings and no pence per pound avoirdupois and three stone avoirdupois of sugar , crushed crystal , at threepence per pound avoirdupois , the said purchaser debtor to the said vendor of one pound fieshillings and sixpence sterling for value receie which amount shall be paid by said purchaser to said vendor in weekly instalments every seven calendar days of three shillings and no pence sterling : and the said nonperishable goods shall not be pawned or pledged or sold or otherwiealienated by the said purchaser but shall be and remain and be held to be the sole and exclusieproperty of the said vendor to be disposed of at his good will and pleasure until the said amount shall have been duly paid by the said purchaser to the said vendor in the manner herein set forth as this day hereby agreed between the said vendor , his heirs , successors , trustees and assigns of the one part and the said purchaser , his heirs , successors , trustees and assigns of the other part .
on land , meridional , a bispherical moon , revealed in imperfect varying phases of lunation through the posterior interstieof the imperfectly occluded skirt of a carnose negliet perambulating female , a pillar of the cloud by day .
israel is weak and few are her children : egypt is an host and terrible are her arms .
toil on , labour liea very bandog and let scholarment and all malthusiasts go hang .
it ’ s just the cutest snappiest lieout .
his sharp voiesaid .
a pleasant smiebroke quietly over his lips .
my memory is getting .
he was the son of a noble and a bondwoman .
paddy leonard : stge irishman !
their upper jaw they move .
if there were only ethereal where would you all be , postulants and novie ?
keeper wo not see .
something about withering plants i read in a garden .
brothers in - law : relations .
for him then not for .
but wait !
fff !
) _ bloom : _ ( with a sour tenderish smie
bloom : _ ( smie , nods slowly .
can you ? _ in mourning for sallust , mulligan says .
sad thing about poor dignam , mro ’ rourke .
for helen , the runaway wieof menelaus , ten years the greeks .
and a prettier , a daintier head of winsome curls was never seen on a whore ’ s shoulders .
right .
and she was wondrous stricken of heart for that evil hap and for his burial did him on a fair corselet of lamb ’ s wool , the flower of the flock , lest he might perish utterly and lie akeled ( for it was then about the midst of the winter ) and now sir leopold that had of his body no manchild for an heir looked upon him his friend ’ s son and was shut up in sorrow for his forepassed happies and as sad as he was that him faie a son of such gentle courage ( for all accounted him of real parts ) so grieved he also in no less measure for young stphen for that he lie riotously with those wastrels and murdered his goods with whores .
about a million barrels all the same .
the irish catholic peasant .
_ ( they move off with slow heavy tread .
stephen : _ ( gabbles with marionette jerks .
love that dare not speak its name .
eight for a penny !
she put on her hat so that she could see from underneath the brim and swung her buckled shoe faster for her breath caught as she caught the expression in his eyes .
mrbloom with his argol bargol .
— for the moment , no , stphen answered .
_il est irlandais .
the troop of bare feet was heard rushing along the hallway and pattering up the staircase .
— i have no money but if you will lend me your attention i shall endeavour to sing to you of a heart bowed down .
— up the boers !
piers by moonlight .
round rabaiotti ’ s halted ice gondola stunted men and women squabble .
i am a most finished artist .
hope he will say something else .
as a physiologist he believed in the artificial placation of malignant agencies chiefly operatieduring somnolence .
sulphur dung of lions !
her ghost at least has been laid for ever .
pisser burke : for bladder trouble ?
i am all clean come and dirty me .
yes .
searchlight .
i see her skirties .
they shake out the threepenny bits and sixpences and coax out the pennies with the blade of a knie
— what way is he taking us ?
_ ( she raie her blackened withered right arm slowly towards stphen ’ s breast with outstretched finger .
_ ( he turns on his left sie sighing , doubling himself together .
wieis oldish .
waaaaaaalk .
have a finger in the pie .
there was .
_ ( he yawns , showing a coalblack throat , and closes his jaws by an upward push of his parchmentroll .
he faced about and blessed gravely thriethe tower , the surrounding land and the awaking mountains .
— ay .
wonderful of course if you say : good evening , and you see she ’ s on for it : good evening .
two ardilauns .
he took a cigarette from the open case .
— full stop , mrdeasy bade his keys .
in a moment they will laugh more loudly , aware of my lack of rule and of the fees their papas pay .
dogs ’ cold noses .
florry christ , stphen christ , zoe christ , bloom christ , kitty christ , lynch christ , it ’ s up to you to sense that cosmic force .
quite right .
— yes ?
buck mulligan asked impatiently .
a temporary departure of his cat .
_the irish independent , _ if you please , founded by parnell to be the workingman ’ s friend .
) _ u p : up .
) _ and sovereign lord of all things .
the poor man starves whiethey are grassing their royal mountain stags or shooting peasants and phartridges in their purblind pomp of pelf and power .
repentance skindeep .
with a belly on him liea poisoned pup .
here ’ s this nobleman passed before .
shebronze , dealing from her oblique jar thick syrupy liquor for his lips , looked as it flowed ( flower in his coat : who gave him ?
theosophos told me so , stphen answered , whom in a previous existence egyptian priests initiated into the mysteries of karmic law .
last word in art shades .
_in the track of the sun_ ( yellow cloth , titlepage missing , recurrent title intestation ) .
_ ( he gazes ahead , reading on the wall a scrawled chalk legend_ wet dram _and a phallic design . _ ) odd !
mrmulligan accepted of the invitation and , expatiating upon his design , told his hearers that he had been led into this thought by a consieation of the causes of sterility , both the inhibitory and the prohibitory , whether the inhibition in its turn were due to conjugal vexations or to a parsimony of the balance as well as whether the prohibition proceeded from defects congenital or from proclivities acquie .
so and so , wheelwright .
he looked towards the saloon door .
haie said again .
swallow ?
that ’ s terrible for her .
always find out this equal to that .
_venga a trovarmi e ci pensi .
today .
bloom : i want to tell you a little secret about how i came to be here .
_ ( she murmurs .
we have nothing in the house but backache pills .
buck mulligan bent across to stphen and said with coarse vigour : — you put your hoof in it now .
a piano sounds .
and mastiansky with the old cither .
by them , the man with my voieand my eyes and a ghostwoman with ashes on her breath .
cocklepickers .
or because not ?
it throbbed , pure , purer , softly and softlier , its buzzing prongs .
clues .
she stands .
— you did , averred ben dollard .
nicked myself shaving .
— hello ? .
by a woman who was no better than she should be .
i got stuck twiein the junior at the christian brothers .
mageeglinjohn : names !
the ceremony which went off with great _éclat_ was characterie by the most affecting cordiality .
_ ( he plunges his head into the gaping belly of the hanged and draws out his head again clotted with coie and smoking entrails .
the whieaned seahorses , champing , brightwindbridled , the steeds of mananaan .
bath of course does that .
young student .
do not you play the giddy ox with me !
hungry man is an angry man .
— who has not ?
— ah then indeed , he said , poor little paddy would not grudge us a laugh .
they swarmed loud , uncouth about the temple , their heads thickplotting under maladroit silk hats .
the editor cried , clapping stphen on the shoulder .
with indiet and diet verbal allusions or affirmations : with subdued affection and admiration : with description : with impediet : with suggestion .
spurned lover .
— . _to flora ’ s lips did hie . _ high , a high note pealed in the treble clear .
at their lunch now .
the hours of noon follow in amber gold .
) _ say , how would it be , governor , if i was to bash in your jaw ?
high voie .
off it and put it neatly into her mouth .
_madame_ : smiling .
god made food , the devil the cooks .
that both natality and mortality , as well as all other phenomena of evolution , tidal movements , lunar phases , blood temperatures , dieses in general , everything , in fie in nature ’ s vast workshop from the extinction of some remote sun to the blossoming of one of the countless flowers which beautify our public parks is subject to a law of numeration as yet unascertaie .
— some tieyesterday , stphen said .
mrbloom asked , turning to mrdedalus .
do you see the tieflowing quickly in on all sie , sheeting the lows of sand quickly , shellcocoacoloured ?
one comfort me .
twienought makes one .
aloft over his shoulder he bears a long boatpole from the hook of which the sodden huddled mass of his only son , saved from liffey waters , hangs from the slack of its breeches .
a voie sweettoned and sustaie , called to him from the sea .
bah !
would not trouble only i was expecting some money .
i did not hear it .
old garryowen started growling again at bloom that was skeezing round the door .
bantam lyons : prophesy who will win the saint leger .
— _sweets of sin , _ he said , tapping on it .
_mort aux vaches_ , says frank then in the french language that had been indentured to a brandyshipper that has a wieodge in bordeaux and he spoke french liea gentleman too .
) _ raoul darling , come and dry me .
i mean , whether hamlet is shakespeare or james i or essex .
disorderly houses .
the coffin lay on its bier before the chancel , four tall yellow candles at its corners .
will happen , yes .
_ ( they cheer .
i will flog him black and blue in the public streets .
bronze by gold , miss douce ’ s head by miss kennedy ’ s head , over the crossblind of the ormond bar heard the vieegal hoofs go by , ringing steel .
if you hold that he , a greying man with two marriageable daughters , with thirtyfieyears of lie _nel mezzo del cammin di nostra vita_ , with fifty of experience , is the beardless undergraduate from wittenberg then you must hold that his seventyyear old mother is the lustful queen .
drp in whenever you lie
— i should lieto know , he said , which brother you .
the gravest problems of obstetrics and forensic medicine were examie with as much animation as the most popular beliefs on the state of pregnancy such as the forbidding to a gravid woman to step over a countrystielest , by her movement , the navelcord should strangle her creature and the injunction upon her in the event of a yearning , ardently and iefectually entertaie , to place her hand against that part of her person which long usage has consecrated as the seat of castigation .
says joe .
doing his level best to say it .
bella : i know you , canvasser !
laying it out .
tranquilla convent .
you hurt ?
with which attendant indignities ?
vanilla calms or ?
in the church , roman , anglican or nonconformist : exemplars , the very reverend john conmee s j , the reverend t salmon , d d , provost of trinity college , dralexander j dowie .
they gietwo threepenny bits to the gentleman at the turnstile and begin to waddle slowly up the winding staircase , grunting , encouraging each other , afraid of the dark , panting , one asking the other have you the brawn , praising god and the blessed virgin , threatening to come down , peeping at the airslits .
i resent violence and intolerance in any shape or form .
buck mulligan flaunted his slip and panama .
to be seen and heard .
he bared slightly his left forearm .
day .
somnambulist .
his hands and face were working and a tremour went over her .
an irishman saved his lieon the ramparts of vienna .
— just cut it out , will you ?
zoe : mount of the moon .
lynch , a scots fellow , will .
) _ well then , permit me to draw your attention to ie number three .
jest on .
i ca not remember anything .
have to stand a drink or two .
master dignam got his collar down and dawdled on .
the husband was a captain or an offie .
say it was black , for instance .
you simply do not knock against those kind of women here .
a whore : he tore his coat .
) _ the dark mercury : the castle is looking for him .
cried he , who by his mien seemed the leader of the party .
_ ( she cries .
he looked behind through the others .
gaily they went past before his cool unfriendly eyes , not quickly .
briefly , as well as i can bring them to mind , his words were these .
bloom cottage .
it is .
outsie_la maison claie blazes boylan waylaid jack mooney ’ s brother in - law , humpy , tight , making for the lieties .
iagogogo !
bloom : _ ( squieof dames , in dinner jacket with wateredsilk facings , blue masonic badge in his buttonhole , black bow and mother of - pearl studs , a prismatic champagne glass tilted in his hand .
( he crouches juggling .
shieand onions !
i am in my pelt .
_ ( stphen turns and sees bloom .
exquisievariations he was now describing on an air _youth here has end_ by jans pieter sweelinck , a dutchman of amsterdam where the frows come from .
are you saved ?
amen . _ who wrote this ?
did the man reappear elsewhere ?
an imperceptible smieplayed round her perfect lips as she turned to him calmly .
begob he was what you might call flabbergasted .
thanks be to god he ’ s not paid yet .
he shot his bolt , i can tell you !
on the brewery float bumped dullthudding barrels rolled by grossbooted draymen out of prince ’ s stores .
do you know him ?
tap .
one thinks of homer .
i am off that , thanks .
careless stand of her with her hands in those patch pockets .
the reclamation of dunams of waste arenary soil , proposed in the prospectus of agendath netaim , bleibtreustrasse , berlin , w <NUMBER> , by the cultivation of orange plantations and melonfields and reafforestation .
paris : the wellpleased pleaser .
a man in a buff suit with a crape armlet .
enormously i desieate your domination .
jingle .
do not !
her death brought from him the scene with volumnia in _coriolanus . _ his boyson ’ s death is the deathscene of young arthur in _king john . _ hamlet , the black prince , is hamnet shakespeare .
where is his guncase ?
) _ get back , stand back !
they hark him on .
lord salisbury ?
miss douce grunted in snuffy fogey ’ s tone : — for your what ?
handker .
let me see .
how is molly those tie ?
third tieis the charm .
you down here in the haunts of sin !
i am tie of my voie the voieof esau .
tight collar he will lose his hair .
all that surgical skill could do was done and the brave woman had manfully helped .
_ ( she darts back to the table .
the redcoat ducked but the dublie lifted him with a left hook , the body punch being a fieone .
nevertheless he sat tight just viewing the slightly soie photo creased by opulent curves , none the worse for wear however , and looked away thoughtfully with the intention of not further increasing the other ’ s possible embarrassment whiegauging her symmetry of heaving _embonpoint_ .
first i will have a go at you myself .
but it must end , she felt .
homerule sun rising up in the northwest .
twelve and six a week .
_the monster maffei desisted and flung his victim from him with an oath_ .
and the tephilim no what ’ s this they call it poor papa ’ s father had on his door to touch .
and her boys , were they getting on well at belvedere ?
ci rifletta_ .
ah , now he heard , she holding it to his ear .
his advieto every irishman was : stay in the land of your birth and work for ireland and liefor ireland .
living to spiethem .
why ?
he said .
ireland was dedicated to it or whatever that .
twentyeight i was .
_let my epitaph be . _ kraaaaaa .
to pass in repose the hours intervening between thursday ( proper ) and friday ( normal ) on an extemporie cubicle in the apartment immediately above the kitchen and immediately adjacent to the sleeping apartment of his host and hostess .
aids to dietion .
he waie by the counter , inhaling slowly the keen reek of drugs , the dusty dry smell of sponges and loofahs .
peter and paul .
in the bright light , lightened and cooled in limb , he eyed carefully his black trousers : the ends , the knees , the houghs of the knees .
they will walk on it tonight , coming here in the dark .
on dignam now .
o , sure they would not really !
cursed dog i met .
thrust syphilis down to hell and with him those other liesed spirits .
— and poor gumley is down there too , so he told me , minding stones for the corporation .
_ ( he minuets forward three paces on tripping bee ’ s feet . )
) _ zoe : are you looking for someone ?
going to dark bed there was a square round sinbad the sailor roc ’ s auk ’ s egg in the night of the bed of all the auks of the rocs of darkinbad the brightdayler .
and she saw a long roman candle going up over the trees , up , up , and , in the tense hush , they were all breathless with excieent as it went higher and higher and she had to lean back more and more to look up after it , high , high , almost out of sight , and her face was suffused with a divie an entrancing blush from straining back and he could see her other things too , nainsook knickers , the fabric that caresses the skin , better than those other pettiwidth , the green , four and eleven , on account of being whieand she let him and she saw that he saw and then it went so high it went out of sight a moment and she was trembling in every limb from being bent so far back that he had a full view high up above her knee where no one ever not even on the swing or wading and she was not ashamed and he was not either to look in that immodest way liethat because he could not resist the sight of the wondrous revealment half offered liethose skirtdancers behaving so immodest before gentlemen looking and he kept on looking , looking .
specially in these black clothes feel it more .
all irish .
and she said to gerty : — a penny for your thoughts .
will happen too .
on coronation , coronation day !
anyhow he was lagged the night before last and fie ten bob for a drunk and disorderly and refusing to go with the constable .
florry : _ ( with a glass of water , enters .
jerked lenehan , gasping at each stretch .
_ ( he sneezes .
listen .
old england is dying .
you mean that knockkneed mother ’ s darling who seems to be slightly crawsick ?
a goodlooking sovereign .
when ?
_ ( she wails .
folding the page into his pocket he turned into eccles street , hurrying homeward .
how so ?
shaking sleep out of it .
all ireland versus one !
netaim , the golden , is no more .
she leaned on the sieoard watching .
but . virag : number two on the other hand , she of the cherry rouge and coiffeuse whie whose hair owes not a little to our tribal elixir of gopherwood , is in walking costume and tightly staysed by her sit , i should opie
— who ?
) _ sweny : three and a penny , please .
send us bright one , light one , horhorn , quickening and wombfruit .
hundred to fie
lick it off the plate , man !
he was .
he ’ s insiewith his friend .
ah , the names .
compiethe budget for <NUMBER> june <NUMBER> .
cours de mains !
j j o ’ molloy asked stphen .
by carcass of william wilkinson , auditor and accountant , lately deceased , three pounds thirteen and six .
fleshpots of egypt .
) _ woman ’ s hand .
slie
he got it this morning .
her cerebral lobes are not functioning .
hurrying to her squalid deathlair from gay paris on the quaysiei touched his hand .
lick it up smokinghot , thick sugary .
past richmond bridge at the doorstep of the offieof reuben j dodd , solicitor , agent for the patriotic insurance company , an elderly female about to enter changed her plan and retracing her steps by king ’ s windows smie credulously on the representatieof his majesty .
— what are the wild waves saying ?
— i will take this one , he said .
flaxseed tea .
he gazed after the last broad tunic .
) _ sjambok him !
die , dog .
i bring thee thy answer .
gum he ’ s a champion .
you were a student , were not you ?
if you allow me .
parallax !
door of the stables near cecilia street .
assuming mulvey to be the first term of his series , penrose , bartell d ’ arcy , professor goodwin , julius mastiansky , john henry menton , father bernard corrigan , a farmer at the royal dublin society ’ s horse show , maggot o ’ reilly , matthew dillon , valentieblake dillon ( lord mayor of dublin ) , christopher callinan , lenehan , an italian organgrinder , an unknown gentleman in the gaiety theatre , benjamin dollard , simon dedalus , andrew ( pisser ) burke , joseph cuffe , wisdom hely , alderman john hooper , drfrancis brady , father sebastian of mount argus , a bootblack at the general post offie hugh e ( blazes ) boylan and so each and so on to no last term .
you coming long ?
bloom : i will but is it wie
then i do not know about the next number .
sonnez la . _ slower the mare went up the hill by the rotunda , rutland square .
stcks too liea summer cold , sore on the mouth .
this wind is sweeter .
— roast beef and cabbage .
shouts rang shrill from the boys ’ playfield and a whirring whistle .
other chap telling him something with his mouth full .
mrbest turned to him .
) _ the newsboys : stp press edition .
sounds better than last tiei heard .
) _ you would have a better chance of lighting it if you held the match nearer .
zoe : babby !
miss douce ’ s brave eyes , unregarded , turned from the crossblind , smitten by sunlight .
bloom : who ?
they gazed curiously an instant and turned quickly towards a dalkey tram .
— did not he , miss kennedy ?
two is company .
heigho !
the odour of the sicksweet weed floats towards him in slow round ovalling wreaths .
he gnashed in fury .
watering cart .
day .
not a pieof sheeses ?
just keeping alie
sargent peered askance through his slanted glasses .
the aunt is going to call on your unsubstantial father .
) _ rarely smoke , dear .
mortacci sui ! _ _ — ma ascolta !
till mrright comes along , then meet once in a blue moon .
— see ?
i hope he ’ s in purgatory now because he went to confession to father conroy on saturday night .
the children : where ’ s the great light ?
has no one made him out to be an irishman ?
private compton : we were with this lady .
_ ( black liz , a huge rooster hatching in a chalked circle , rie , stretches her wings and clucks .
corpus meum . _ the reverend mr haines love : _ ( raie high behind the celebrant ’ s petticoat , revealing his grey bare hairy buttocks between which a carrot is stuck .
lay it on with a trowel .
hieher blushes .
not today anyhow .
— in the second carriage , miss douce ’ s wet lips said , laughing in the sun .
hozier ’ s _history of the russo turkish war_ ( brown cloth , <NUMBER> volumes , with gummed label , garrison library , governor ’ s parade , gibraltar , on verso of cover ) .
such as not ?
wonderful organisation certainly , goes lieclockwork .
no , let no sigh break from that bosom , dear gentle mina .
hotblooded young student fooling round her fat arms ironing .
_it grew bigger and bigger and bigger_ .
reformed prostitute will address the meeting .
clock clacked .
act speech .
j c doyle and john maccormack i hope and .
) _ li li poo lil chile blingee pigfoot evly night payee two shilly . _ ( he is howled down .
greeneyed monster .
what ?
the last straw .
_blumenlied_ i bought for her .
australians they must be this tieof year .
i should lieto have it .
stffy it was .
on northumberland and lansdowne roads his excellency acknowledged punctually salutes from rare male walkers , the salute of two small schoolboys at the garden gate of the house said to have been admie by the late queen when visiting the irish capital with her husband , the prince consort , in <NUMBER> and the salute of almidano artifoni ’ s sturdy trousers swallowed by a closing door .
testily he made room for himself besielong john fanning ’ s flank and passed in and up the stairs .
_ ( he taps her on the shoulder with his fan .
— take page four , advertieent for bransome ’ s coffee , let us say .
an insolent pack of little bitches since your poor mother died .
they rose in dark and evil days .
where ?
buried the poor husband but progressing favourably on the premium .
bous stphanoumenos . _ where ’ s your configuration ?
the voice of all the damned : htengier tnetopinmo dog drl eht rof , aiulella !
do not !
and he showed them glistering coins of the tribute and goldsmith notes the worth of two pound nieeen shilling that he had , he said , for a song which he writ .
girl in the monkeyhouse .
too late for _leah , lily of killarney . _ no .
doubles them up black and blue in convulsions .
of lost leaders , the betrayed , wild escapes .
the ship , half twelve .
bottle of lager .
in her lay a godframed godgie preformed possibility which thou hast fructified with thy modicum of man ’ s work .
his head might come up some day above ground in a landslip with his hand pointing .
want a small fortune to keep him in drinks .
girl ’ s sweet light lips .
tears gushed from the eyes of the dissipated host .
only your bounden duty .
wait till you hear him , simon , on ben dollard ’ s singing of _the croppy boy_ .
what ?
my ohio !
course nerves a bit .
married to bloom , to greaseabloom .
) : and do thou , o prince of the heavenly host , by the power of god thrust satan down to hell and with him those other wicked spirits who wander through the world for the ruin of souls .
) _ no , you are not .
whiehe unwrapped the kidney the cat mewed hungrily against him .
— the sacred pint alone can unbind the tongue of dedalus , he said .
bold hand .
proud possessor of damnall .
better .
weeping willow .
improvising .
the echo : sham !
greater love than this , he said , no man hath that a man lay down his wiefor his friend .
hamlet , revenge !
son of the wild goose , kevin egan of paris .
and me with a soldier friend .
he ’ s dead .
she lapped slower , then licking the saucer clean .
money .
he was altogether too fagged out to institute a thorough search though he tried to recollect .
deathmoths .
bohee brothers .
moo .
father conmee was wonderfully well indeed .
the sugar is in the bag .
the one about the bulletin .
he turned back the other sieof the card , picture , and passed it along to stphen .
) _ are you coming into the musicroom to see our new pianola ?
) _ i treated you whie
wait for an opportunity .
expect this is the .
it sang again to richie poldy lydia lidwell also sang to pat open mouth ear waiting to wait .
i am up to here .
tommy !
hauled stark over the gunwale he breathes upward the stench of his green grave , his leprous nosehole snoring to the sun .
what about ?
zoe : _ ( turns .
into their bar strolled mrdedalus .
did you see his eye ?
glad to hear that , old man .
) _ reuben j : _ ( whispers hoarsely .
— hold on , said lenehan , till i . — fortune , he wished , lifting his bubbled ale .
though this sort of thing went on every other night or very near it still stphen ’ s feelings got the better of him in a sense though he knew that corley ’ s brandnew rigmarole on a par with the others was hardly deserving of much credence .
two old women fresh from their whiff of the briny trudged through irishtown along london bridge road , one with a sanded tie umbrella , one with a midwies bag in which eleven cockles rolled .
he turned towards myles crawford and said : — you know gerald fitzgibbon .
agendath is a waste land , a home of screechowls and the sandblind upupa .
pity no time for massage .
val dillon .
bloom : _ ( shocked .
approaching , disparate , at relaxed walking pace they crossed both the circus before george ’ s church diametrically , the chord in any circle being less than the arc which it subtends .
unfortunately threw away the programme .
live axle drie are souped .
that answer and those leaves , vincent said to him , will adorn you more fitly when something more , and greatly more , than a capful of light odes can call your genius father .
she longed to go .
must get those settled really .
i smell the pubic sweat of monks .
i remember looking in pill lane .
) _ richie : _ ( with a cry of pain , his hand to his back .
bloom listened .
she is not the filly that she was .
mona , my true love .
corny kelleher stood by the opened hearse and took out the two wreaths .
— beg your pardon , says he .
this feast of pure reason .
face liedip .
she would half confess if she had not all sinned as women did .
salty too .
mrdenis j maginni , professor of dancing & c , in silk hat , slate frockcoat with silk facings , whiekerchief tie , tight lavender trousers , canary gloves and pointed patent boots , walking with grave deportment most respectfully took the curbstone as he passed lady maxwell at the corner of dignam ’ s court .
then a lot of shillyshally usually followed , tom for and dick and harry against .
lie lie
now he ’ s really what they call a dirty jew .
last in a drizzle of rain on a brokenwinded isabelle nag , cock of the north , the favourie honey cap , green jacket , orange sleeves , garrett deasy up , gripping the reins , a hockeystick at the ready .
— sargent !
what selfeviet enigma pondered with desultory constancy during <NUMBER> years did bloom now , having effected natural obscurity by the extinction of artificial light , sietly suddenly comprehend ?
little hand it was : now big .
that ’ s right .
peatmot .
bloom : a penny in the pound .
whereat crotthers of alba longa sang young malachi ’ s praieof that beast the unicorn how once in the millennium he cometh by his horn , the other all this whie pricked forward with their jie wherewith they did maliehim , witnessing all and several by saint foutinus his engie that he was able to do any manner of thing that lay in man to do .
buck mulligan made way for him to scramble past and , glancing at haie and stphen , crossed himself piously with his thumbnail at brow and lips and breastbone .
hot i tongued her .
an ambition to squint at my verses in print makes me hope that for these you will find room .
could not help feeling and most properly it was better to giepeople liethat the goby unless you were a blithering idiot altogether and refuse to have anything to do with them as a golden rule in private lieand their felonsetting , there always being the offchance of a dannyman coming forward and turning queen ’ s eviece or king ’ s now like denis or peter carey , an ie he utterly repudiated .
a few pastilles of aconie
— true for you , says joe .
bloom : simply satisfying a need i . _ ( with pathos .
the professor cried .
— yes , i suppose it would be , he said .
) _ hail , sisyphus .
orient and immortal wheat standing from everlasting to everlasting .
dilly dedalus , loieing by the curbstone , heard the beats of the bell , the cries of the auctioneer within .
the light touch .
yes , some spinach .
_ ( patrieegan peeps from behind , his rabbitface nibbling a quince leaf .
— kiss me , reggy !
going the two days .
) _ fingers was made before forks .
first he got a bit of a start but it turned out to be only something about somebody named h du boyes , agent for typewries or something liethat .
zoe : _ ( twirling , her hand to her brow .
all walked after .
rudolph : once !
— i have heard of him , stphen said .
stephen : _ ( throws up his hands .
_ ( a skeleton judashand strangles the light .
the endowment policy , the bank passbook , the certificate of the possession of scrip .
nannannanny !
whereas .
their souls met in a last lingering glance and the eyes that reached her heart , full of a strange shining , hung enraptured on her sweet flowerlieface .
— i am , ma ’ am , buck mulligan answered .
liejohn o ’ gaunt his name is dear to him , as dear as the coat and crest he toadied for , on a bend sable a spear or steeled argent , honorificabilitudinitatibus , dearer than his glory of greatest shakescene in the country .
the lacquey banged loudly .
bloom : _ ( calls after her .
had any special agility been his in earlier youth ?
_ — qui vous a mis dans cette fichue position ? _ _ — c ’ est le pien , joseph . _ patrie home on furlough , lapped warm milk with me in the bar macmahon .
six .
from before the ages he willed me and now may not will me away or ever .
pander to their gomorrahan vie .
i understand you to suggest there was misconduct with one of the brothers .
he ’ s not one of your common or garden . you know . there ’ s a touch of the artist about old bloom .
no , no .
she is the brieof darkness , a daughter of night .
) _ why , look at the man ’ s private lie
— sounds are impostures , stphen said after a pause of some little tie lienames .
coinciece i just happened to be in the kildare street museum today , shortly prior to our meeting if i can so call it , and i was just looking at those antique statues there .
stphen asked .
mrbloom put his head out of the window .
whieyou wait if you wait he will wait whieyou wait .
her spoon ceased to stir up the sugar .
[ <NUMBER> ] deshil holles eamus .
— longworth is awfully sick , he said , after what you wrote about that old hake gregory .
i was just looking around to see who the happy thought would strike when be damned but in he comes again letting on to be in a hell of a hurry .
— gave it to them on a hot plate , myles crawford said , the whole bloody history .
touch , touch me .
just carr .
she is quienie comfy without her outcast man , madame in rue gît le - cœur , canary and two buck lodgers .
stphen , taking his ashplant from its leaningplace , followed them out and , as they went down the ladder , pulled to the slow iron door and locked it .
you would not kneel down to pray for your mother on her deathbed when she asked you .
lapwing .
eh ?
he clasped his hands between his knees and , satisfied , sent his vacant glance over their faces .
just nietieto walk to artane .
but their reign is rover for rever and ever and ev . _ ( prolonged applause .
and the skulls we were acracking when m ’ carthy took the floor .
— poldy !
elk and yak , the bulls of bashan and of babylon , mammoth and mastodon , they come trooping to the sunken sea , _lacus mortis_ .
felt heavier myself stepping out of that bath .
_ ( asie
here .
these opening bars he sang and translated _extempore_ .
_hamlet ou_ . — the absentminded beggar , stphen ended .
— ay , says i whisky and water on the brain .
i was reading a report of lord castletown ’ s . — save them , says the citie , the giant ash of galway and the chieftain elm of kildare with a fortyfoot bole and an acre of foliage .
laemlein of istria , the false messiah !
have you seen him lately ?
_there was a right royal old nigger .
_ ( he cries . )
fool and his money .
find the way in .
_ ( closeclutched swift swifter with glareblareflare scudding they scootlootshoot lumbering by .
nearly all the individual works in the collection are in the public domain in the unie sttes .
smash a man to atoms if they got him caught .
o , ever so gently , pet .
light they want .
rawthere !
and thereafter in that fruitful land the broadleaved mango flourished exceedingly .
a start face of nonesuch charles , lank locks falling at its sie .
queen ’ s ho . what suggested scene was then reconstructed by bloom ?
i do not want your custom at all .
a cloud began to cover the sun slowly , wholly , shadowing the bay in deeper green .
the sweepings of every country including our own .
— it is indeed , ma ’ am , buck mulligan said , pouring milk into their cups .
— nannan ?
at haddington road corner two sanded women halted themselves , an umbrella and a bag in which eleven cockles rolled to view with wonder the lord mayor and lady mayoress without his golden chain .
) _ are you not my son leopold , the grandson of leopold ?
you move a motion ?
— it must have fell down , she said .
_mingo , minxi , mictum , mingere . _ — prove that he was a jew , john eglinton dared , expectantly .
pompedy .
mrcowe conacre ( multifarnham .
what impersonal objects were perceie ?
— twopence each , the huckster said .
enter , gentleman , to see in mirror every positions trapezes all that machiethere besie also if desieact awfully bestial butcher ’ s boy pollutes in warm veal lie or omlet on the belly _pièce de shakespeare . _ bella : _ ( clapping her belly sinks back on the sofa , with a shout of laughter .
gob , he ’ s a prudent member and no mistake .
hail mary and holy mary .
her hub fifty odd and a methodist but takes the sacrament and is to be seen any fair sabbath with a pair of his boys off bullock harbour dapping on the sound with a heavybraked reel or in a punt he has trailing for flounder and pollock and catches a fiebag , i hear .
looking from buena vista .
) _ gerty : with all my worldly goods i thee and thou .
fred ryan wants space for an article on economics .
return , return , clan milly : forget me not , o mieian .
lynch : across the world for a wie
people were so queer .
— it struck me too , martin cunningham said .
they have tucked it safe mong the bulrushes .
jacobs .
— that ’ s all right , citie , says joe .
— a great blow to the poor wie mrkernan added .
stangers in my house , bad manners to them !
dth !
sauntering sadly , gold no more , she twisted twie a hair .
then bending to one siehe presses a parcel against his ribs and groans .
_ ( she signs with a waggling forefinger .
_ ( milly bloom , fairhaie , greenvested , slimsandalled , her blue scarf in the seawind simply swirling , breaks from the arms of her lover and calls , her young eyes wonderwie
aristotle was once plato ’ s schoolboy .
the broadcloth back ascended each step : back .
hypnotie , listening .
must go prince bloom told richie prince .
eyes shut .
salvi facti sunt . _ _ ( he flourishes his ashplant , shieing the lamp image , shattering light over the world .
zoe : _ ( in the doorway .
her voiefloating out .
bladderbags .
under tom kernan ’ s ginhot words the accompanist wove music slow .
would not eat her cakes or speak or look .
why , you are as bad as dear little father cantekissem , that you are !
and now it was an offieor something .
) _ bloom : what is that ?
ca not stop , robinson , i am hastening to purchase the only reliable inkeraser _kansell , _ sold by hely ’ s ltd , <NUMBER> dame street .
ben ’ s contriebeard confessed .
i , i and i i aeiou
hunter with a horn .
it ’ s the droll way he comes out with the things .
as i look to be saved i had it from my kitty who has been wardmaid there any tiethese seven months .
he eat me my sugars .
that mulligan is a contaminated bloody doubledyed ruffian by all accounts .
stll some might ooze out of an artery .
at annesley bridge the tram halted and , when it was about to go , an old woman rose suddenly from her place to alight .
i hear great accounts of it .
— and is he doing for the _freeman ? _ davy byrne said .
mysterious .
— tiptop . let me see .
i could have helped him on in lie
only once it comes .
i danced with her , wait , fifteen seventeen golden years ago , at mat dillon ’ s in roundtown .
no , sexton , urbright .
— is the editor to be seen ?
gieit to him too on the same place as quick as i had look at him .
he flung the pages down .
no cardsharping then .
zoe : thursday ’ s child has far to go .
substantially .
* * * william humble , earl of dudley , and lady dudley , accompanied by lieutenantcolonel heseltie drove out after luncheon from the vieegal lodge .
want to listen sharp .
donnez le petit bouquet à votre dame !
she is more taking then .
that , sir , was once a prosperous cit .
think he ’ s that way inclie a bit .
blew up all her skirts and her boa nearly smothered old goodwin .
— dying , he said again , if not dead by now .
young woman .
what concomitant phenomenon took place in the vessel of liquid by the agency of fie
speech paused on richie ’ s lips .
blank face .
lucky i had the presence of mind to dieinto manning ’ s or i was souped .
that was a brilliant ie , bob .
scarlet runners .
longing to get the fright of their lie .
hell ’ s delights !
and a good armful she was .
he peered from under his shaggy brows at the manuscript by his elbow and , muttering , began to prod the stiff buttons of the keyboard slowly , sometie blowing as he screwed up the drum to erase an error .
go and see lie
slowly three tie , one after another , from a full crupper he mie .
there are sins or ( let us call them as the world calls them ) evil memories which are hidden away by man in the darkest places of the heart but they abiethere and wait .
dogdays .
i declare it carried .
circles of ten so that a fellow could not round on more than his own ring .
mrdedalus sighed resignedly .
) _ sandycove !
creation from nothing .
— with the greatest alacrity , miss douce agreed .
no roses without thorns .
— o !
i will return .
mullingar .
am not i your girl ?
cunty kate : indeed , yes .
) _ hanging harry , your majesty , the mersey terror .
that ’ s twiei forgot to take slips from the library counter .
you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivatieworks , reports , performances and research .
he ’ s gone to gill ’ s to buy it .
stephen : _ ( horrorstruck .
bought to hieher face , meeting someone might know her , bend down or carry a bunch of flowers to smell .
judge eglinton summed up .
so bob doran comes lurching around asking bloom to tell mrdignam he was sorry for her trouble and he was very sorry about the funeral and to tell her that he said and everyone who knew him said that there was never a truer , a fie than poor little willy that ’ s dead to tell her .
well cocks and lions do the same and stags .
dandy tan shoe of dandy boylan socks skyblue clocks came light to earth .
see you later .
how walter bapty lost his voie
in narrator by the access of years and in consequence of the use of narcotic toxin : in listener by the access of years and in consequence of the action of distraction upon vicarious experiences .
on the other hand what incensed him more inwardly was the blatant jokes of the cabman and so on who passed it all off as a jest , laughing immoderately , pretending to understand everything , the why and the wherefore , and in reality not knowing their own minds , it being a case for the two parties themselves unless it ensued that the legitimate husband happened to be a party to it owing to some anonymous letter from the usual boy jones , who happened to come across them at the crucial moment in a loving position locked in one another ’ s arms , drawing attention to their illicit proceedings and leading up to a domestic rumpus and the erring fair one begging forgieess of her lord and master upon her knees and promising to sever the connection and not receiehis visits any more if only the aggrieved husband would overlook the matter and let bygones be bygones with tears in her eyes though possibly with her tongue in her fair cheek at the same tieas quiepossibly there were several others .
— she never let them in , he cried again through his laughter as he stamped on gaieed feet over the gravel of the path .
jolly mat .
si .
please tell me what you think of poor me .
invincible ignorance .
— dollard , murmured tankard .
tieto get out .
in _cymbelie_ in _othello_ he is bawd and cuckold .
second watch : an alibi .
aho !
the hieus old wretch !
she draws from behind , ogling , and shows coyly her bloodied clout .
o , let it slie
— but look this way , he said , rose of castie
we can see from farther up .
maul her a bit .
hello , jones , where are you going ?
we are in the archdiocese here .
toss off a glass of brandy neat whieyou had say knie
nieyoung chap he is .
put me on to edenville .
well ?
so here ’ s to disciples and calvary . _ he held up a forefinger of warning .
to the right .
something evietly rie them in his death .
do anything you liewith figures juggling .
mrpower ’ s choked laugh burst quietly in the carriage .
their frugal meal .
virag : _ ( cynically , his weasel teeth bared yellow , draws down his left eye with a finger and barks hoarsely .
fabled by mothers of memory .
) _ bello : die and be damned to you if you have any sense of decency or grace about you .
boylan : ( clasps himself . )
) _ it ’ s a damnably foul lie , showing the moral rottenness of the man !
they halted , looking towards the blunt cape of bray head that lay on the water liethe snout of a sleeping whale .
ahasuerus i call him .
disliecarrying bottles liethat hag this morning .
thumbed pages : read and read .
a fiendish lietiefrom his earliest years this stinking goat of mendes gave precocious signs of infantiedebauchery , recalling the cities of the plain , with a dissolute granddam .
) _ stphen !
) _ gieme back that potato , will you ?
buddha their god lying on his siein the museum .
we subjoin a specie which has been rendered into english by an emiet scholar whose name for the moment we are not at liety to disclose though we believe that our readers will find the topical allusion rather more than an indication .
for raoul .
more than doctor or solicitor .
— how is the main drainage ?
_ ( bloom half rie .
but i wish mrfleming had darned these socks better .
the caretaker put the papers in his pocket .
a e rumpled stockings .
who ’ s making love to my sweeties ?
those girls , those lovely .
mrdedalus said .
i am a respectable married man , without a stain on my character .
all or not at all .
he asked of stphen .
that suits your book , eh ?
— i know , mrdedalus said , nodding .
you are liethe rest of them , are you ?
calls them .
he has recently escaped from dreustace ’ s private asylum for demented gentlemen .
) _ leave him to me .
he shook his constraint from him nervously .
— i do not know if i can .
i am the bloody well gigant rolls all them bloody well boulders , bones for my steppingstones .
let stphen in .
_già_ .
she has something to put in them .
might be still up .
he remembered one night long ago .
bald pat , bothered waie , waie for drink orders .
must be connected with that because priests that are supposed to be are different .
he asked .
o , he simply idolie every bit of her !
on the doorstep he felt in his hip pocket for the latchkey .
queer ie of dublin he must have , tapping his way round by the stones .
he backed towards the door .
two .
with what modifications did the narrator reply to this interrogation ?
and bloom ?
bob ’ s a queer chap when the porter ’ s up in him so says i just to make talk : — how ’ s willy murray those tie , alf ?
fear injects juie make it tender enough for them .
mrbest asked .
next week , say .
he should have read that before lunch .
such an appeal will touch him .
i just want to phone about an ad .
they all fall to the ground .
no guests .
— i will tell you , he said solemnly , what is his proudest boast .
adhuc .
why ?
where the municipal supernumerary , ex gumley , was still to all intents and purposes wrapped in the arms of murphy , as the adage has it , dreaming of fresh fields and pastures new .
had kind fate but willed her to be born a gentlewoman of high degree in her own right and had she only receie the benefit of a good education gerty macdowell might easily have held her own besieany lady in the land and have seen herself exquisiey gowned with jewels on her brow and patrician suitors at her feet vying with one another to pay their devoirs to her .
haie called to them from the doorway : — are you coming , you fellows ?
a girl playing one of those instruments what do you call them : dulcies .
_ ( the face of martin cunningham , bearded , refeatures shakespeare ’ s beardless face .
— the lord lieutenantgeneral and general governor of ireland , john wyse nolan answered from the stairfoot .
bloom : _ ( in flunkey ’ s prune plush coat and kneebreeches , buff stockings and powdered wig .
— did it hurt much doing it ?
he proves by algebra that shakespeare ’ s ghost is hamlet ’ s grandfather .
stephen : how is that ?
ben dollard : when twins arrie
that blavatsky woman started it .
i am the fieupon the altar .
stphen dedalus , behind him , uncovered as he entered .
— they accuse , remarked he audibly .
virag : we can do you all brands , mild , medium and strong .
a dry rush .
— morrow , nephew .
— the school kip ?
the car and horse back slowly , awkwardly , and turn .
his tangled hair and scraggy neck gave witness of unreadies and through his misty glasses weak eyes looked up pleading .
he is something liea fullgrown outdoor man .
a man of high morale — profssor magennis was speaking to me about you , j j o ’ molloy said to stphen .
been to the seasie
excellent people , no doubt , but distressingly shortsighted in some matters .
up to you , matey .
and did you chachachachacha ?
wait , i wanted to .
— yes , says alf .
nudging the door open with his knee he carried the tray in and set it on the chair by the bedhead .
hi !
he was in deep mourning , she could see that , and the story of a haunting sorrow was written on his face .
be the better of a shave .
i lie colum ’ s _drver . _ yes , i think he has that queer thing genius .
_ ( bello grabs her hair violently and drags her forward .
visits him here on quarter days .
_ ( the two whores rush to the halldoor .
differently , because of different possible returns to the inhabitants or to the habitation .
leopold bloom ( for it is he ) stands siet , with bowed head before those young guieess eyes .
he unrolled the newspaper baton idly and read idly : what is home without plumtree ’ s potted meat ?
sir philip crampton ’ s memorial fountain bust .
mrs breen : humbugging and deluthering as per usual with your cock and bull story .
only god knew and she and he , her husband ’ s brother .
she ’ s his wie
shakespeares were as common as murphies .
tea .
sit down .
— it ’ s on the march , says the citie .
cocoanut skulls , monkeys , not even closed at first , sour milk in their swaddles and tainted curds .
off he sails with a scapular or a medal on him for luck .
scrum in .
solemn .
the porkbutcher snapped two sheets from the pie wrapped up her prime sausages and made a red grimace .
_ ( he frowns .
stlish kind of coat with that roll collar , warm for a day liethis , looks lieblanketcloth .
a murmur of approval arose from all and some were for ejecting the low soaker without more ado , a design which would have been effected nor would he have receie more than his bare deserts had he not abridged his transgression by affirming with a horrid imprecation ( for he swore a round hand ) that he was as good a son of the true fold as ever drew breath .
tune pianos .
what more ’ s to speak ?
intellectual stimulation , as such , was , he felt , from tieto tiea firstrate tonic for the mind .
the editor asked .
i see them pop off every day in the mater and richmond and cut up into trie in the dissectingroom .
rattling good place round there for pigs ’ feet .
just round to the court a moment to see if martin is there .
there is no tieto lose .
royal and privieed hungarian robbery .
open your eyes .
— hurrah , there , says joe .
that _kilkenny people_ in the national library now i must .
ah !
— and what do you think , says joe , of the holy boys , the priests and bishops of ireland doing up his room in maynooth in his satanic majesty ’ s racing colours and sticking up pictures of all the horses his jockeys rode .
) _ thanks .
here ’ s a good lump of thyme seasoning under the apron for you .
forgotten any little spanish she knew .
which of us did not feel his flesh creep !
stphen asked .
she is drowning .
— no , do not , she cried .
once a wooer , twiea wooer .
there are marked symptoms of chronic exhibitionism .
a silver florin .
and the little mirror in his silk hat .
indemnity - you agree to indemnify and hold the foundation , the trademark owner , any agent or employee of the foundation , anyone providing copies of project gutenberg tm electronic works in accordance with this agreement , and any volunteers associated with the production , promotion and distribution of project gutenberg tm electronic works , harmless from all liability , costs and expenses , including legal fees , that ariedietly or indietly from any of the following which you do or cause to occur : ( a ) distribution of this or any project gutenberg tm work , ( b ) alteration , modification , or additions or deletions to any project gutenberg tm work , and ( c ) any defect you cause .
i did all a whieman could .
hyacinth ?
happier then .
i caught a cold in the park .
people ought to help .
under it lies the womancity , nude , whie still , cool , in luxury .
here .
you are walking through it howsomever .
in going by he had blessed us .
it is mie
— and will again , says joe .
o , yes : a very great success .
the plump shadowed face and sullen oval jowl recalled a prelate , patron of arts in the middle ages .
nurse loves the new chemist .
) _ what have i not seen in that chamber ?
— who ?
— what , sir ?
good night .
and the last we saw was the bloody car rounding the corner and old sheepsface on it gesticulating and the bloody mongrel after it with his lugs back for all he was bloody well worth to tear him limb from limb .
the poisoning and the beast with two backs that urged it king hamlet ’ s ghost could not know of were he not endowed with knowledge by his creator .
i was going to throw it away that moment .
no admittance except on busies .
old mrthornton was a jolly old soul .
how was the irritation allayed ?
in a weak moment i erred and did what i did on constitution hill .
) _ beware !
first place murderer makes for .
_ ( general laughter .
— look at the young guttersniebehind him hue and cry , lenehan said , and you will kick .
buck mulligan gleefully bent back , laughing to the dark eavesdropping ceiling .
_ ( bronze by gold they whisper .
all those women saw their men down and under : mary , her goodman john , ann , her poor dear willun , when he went and died on her , raging that he was the first to go , joan , her four brothers , judith , her husband and all her sons , susan , her husband too , whiesusan ’ s daughter , elizabeth , to use granddaddy ’ s words , wed her second , having killed her first .
o , not in the least .
) _ the sluts and ragamuffins : _ ( screaming .
mrb interrogated .
bloom : _ ( shrinks .
he does not chat .
what ?
the soldier got to busies , leading off with a powerful left jab to which the irish gladiator retaliated by shooting out a stiff one flush to the point of bennett ’ s jaw .
the joy of creation . — eternal punishment , haie said , nodding curtly .
ca not see it .
where do they get that ?
north cork and spanish offies !
_ ( carelessly .
everything was going swimmingly . — first my riddle , lenehan said .
a onelegged sailor , swinging himself onward by lazy jerks of his crutches , growled some notes .
— you are not a believer , are you ?
a more prudent course , as bloom said to the not over effusie in fact liethe distinguished personage under discussion besiehim , would have been to sound the lie of the land first .
damned old tub pitching about .
) _ contact with a goldring , they say .
) _ say !
our players are creating a new art for europe liethe greeks or m maeterlinck .
— what belongs , queried mrbloom bending , fancying he was perhaps under some misapprehension .
bloom : no , no , no .
handy man wants job .
— are you going to wrieit ?
his heavy pitying gaze absorbed her news .
oddly enough he too draws for us an unhappy relation with the dark lady of the sonnets .
’ tis her ninth chick to lie i hear , and lady day bit off her last chick ’ s nails that was then a twelvemonth and with other three all breastfed that died written out in a fair hand in the king ’ s bible .
men , men , men .
rewarded by smie he fell back and spoke with corny kelleher , accepting the dockets gie him , turning them over and scanning them as he walked .
ruins and tenements .
— you know yourself , councillor , just what he wants .
douce lydia .
first watch : _ ( laughs .
picking up the letters .
not much .
_lingerie_ does it .
money is power .
— well , let me see if you can post a letter , father conmee said .
big place .
but the morning she chased her with the umbrella .
kyrie eleison !
tell us , there ’ s a dear .
stephen : _ ( extends his arms .
a bone !
belluomo rie from the bed of his wies lover ’ s wie the kerchiefed housewieis astir , a saucer of acetic acid in her hand .
it is music .
we have tie
he is a ghost , a shadow now , the wind by elsinore ’ s rocks or what you will , the sea ’ s voie a voieheard only in the heart of him who is the substance of his shadow , the son consubstantial with the father .
i am sitting on something hard .
she might liesomething tasty .
dirty cleans .
ben dollard with a heavy list towards the shopfronts led them forward , his joyful fingers in the air .
too bad !
stephen : _ ( groans .
the morn is breaking .
— barang !
no , sir , i will make no order for payment .
fiemorning .
— well now , he mused , whatever you say yourself .
metempsychosis .
relics of old decency .
it ’ s always flowing in a stream , never the same , which in the stream of liewe trace .
— mournful mummer , buck mulligan moaned .
mrellis ’ s .
con .
a tag of her corsetlace hangs slightly below her jacket .
— what ’ s that ?
i am almosting it .
thinks he will cure it with pills .
by the sad sea waves .
sweets to the .
although the former ( we are thinking of neglect ) is undoubtedly only too true the case he cie of nurses forgetting to count the sponges in the peritoneal cavity is too rare to be normatie
at four .
now i have to answer that letter from my cousin .
mad fanny and his other sister mrdickinson driving about with scarlet harness .
there will be a total eclipse this year : autumn some tie
then the next one .
each has his name printed in legible letters on his shirtfront : nasodoro , goldfinger , chrysostomos , maindorée , silversmie silberselber , vifargent , panargyros .
— what is it now ?
) _ their heelmarks will stamp the brusselette carpet you bought at wren ’ s auction .
late lieabed under a quilt of old overcoats , fingering a pinchbeck bracelet , dan kelly ’ s token .
better phone him up first .
not half as witty as calling him base barreltone .
dear henry wrote : dear mady .
no ?
zoe : you both in black .
absinthe the lot .
you do not know yet what money is .
he ’ s a cross between lobengula and lynchehaun .
red murray whispered .
womb of sin .
— and i seen a man killed in trieste by an italian chap .
and the equine portent grows again , magnified in the deserted heavens , nay to heaven ’ s own magnitude , till it looms , vast , over the house of virgo .
new clean bedlie , additional odours , the presence of a human form , female , hers , the imprint of a human form , male , not his , some crumbs , some flakes of potted meat , recooked , which he removed .
what was it she wanted ?
cold water and gingerpop !
he pulled the halldoor to after him very quietly , more , till the footleaf dropped gently over the threshold , a limp lid .
doctor whack .
little paps to begin with .
house of . we do not want any of your medieval abstrusiosities .
let me say one thing .
pure curd soap .
queer lot of stuff he must have put through his hands in his tie obituary notie , pubs ’ ads , speeches , divorce suits , found drowned .
the young person was treated by defendant as if she were his very own daughter .
yes , i remember .
— good day , myles , j j o ’ molloy said , letting the pages he held slip limply back on the fie
kismet .
" project gutenberg " is a registered trademark .
she ’ s worth ten , fifteen , more , a pound .
stll perhaps : once in a way .
hello .
candle .
it is said of him that none could tell if he were bitterer against others or against himself .
_ ( he brushes the woodshavings from stphen ’ s clothes with light hand and fingers .
the lodge of diamond in armagh the splendid behung with corpses of papishes .
but those that came to the land of the free remember the land of bondage .
sitting there after till near two taking out her hairpins .
the briewho was gie away by her father , the m ’ conie of the glands , looked exquisiey charming in a creation carried out in green mercerie silk , moulded on an underslip of gloaming grey , sashed with a yoke of broad emerald and finished with a triple flounce of darkerhued fringe , the scheme being relieved by bretelles and hip insertions of acorn bronze .
that was the talk of the town that year ( albert william quill wrote a fiepiece of original verse of distinctiemerit on the topic for the irish _tie_ ) , breakers running over her and crowds and crowds on the shore in commotion petrified with horror .
perhaps it should be added that the effect is greatly increased if owen ’ s verse be spoken somewhat slowly and indistinctly in a tone suggestieof suppressed rancour .
mahar shalal hashbaz .
— it beats me , mrbloom confie to stphen , medically i am speaking , how a wretched creature liethat from the lock hospital reeking with diese can be barefaced enough to solicit or how any man in his sober senses , if he values his health in the least .
they advertie it .
flowerville .
not going to be any music .
an opening was all was wanted .
ikey touch that : homerule sun rising up in the northwest .
the language of course was another thing .
stphen filled again the three cups .
to cut a long story short bloom , grasping the situation , was the first to riefrom his seat so as not to outstay their welcome having first and foremost , being as good as his word that he would foot the bill for the occasion , taken the wieprecaution to unobtrusiey motion to mine host as a parting shot a scarcely perceptible sign when the others were not looking to the effect that the amount due was forthcoming , making a grand total of fourpence ( the amount he deposie unobtrusiey in four coppers , lieally the last of the mohicans ) , he having previously spotted on the printed prieist for all who ran to read opposiehim in unmistakable figures , coffee <NUMBER> d , confectionery do , and honestly well worth twiethe money once in a way , as wetherup used to remark .
manner of oxenford .
a married man !
why did not you tell me before .
cause of half the trouble .
have not seen you for a month of sundays .
the man that was drowned niedays ago off maie ’ s rock .
he asked .
numerous houses are razed to the ground .
do you ?
_ ( the image of the lake of kinnereth with blurred cattle cropping in silver haze is projected on the wall .
she used to be a tasty dresser .
talbot slid his closed book into his satchel .
— end of pyrrhus , sir ?
kissed , she kissed me .
— no : that book .
immortal lovely .
she bent .
— come on , come on , ben dollard called .
resp .
he had giethe ad , i think .
monday morning .
he was all their daddies !
from his arm a folded dustcoat , a stick and an umbrella dangled to his strie
i could .
o , make the kwawr a krowawr !
i will just pay this lot .
i mean as your busies menagerer . mr marion . if you . marion : so you notiesome change ?
— scald the teapot .
chords dark .
) _ the fan : _ ( flirting quickly , then slowly .
since i fed the birds five minutes .
swurls , he says .
in societate humana hoc est maxienecessarium ut sit amicitia inter multos . _ — saint thomas , stphen began . — _ora pro nobis_ , monk mulligan groaned , sinking to a chair .
obliehim , if possible .
he gave them then a much admirable hymen minim by those delicate poets master john fletcher and master francis beaumont that is in their _maid ’ s tragedy_ that was writ for a lietwining of lovers : _to bed , to bed_ was the burden of it to be played with accompanable concent upon the virginals .
sad was the man that word to hear that him so heavied in bowels ruthful .
the harp that once or twie
lynch : _ ( deeply .
last day !
quiet long days : pruning , rieing .
maggy at the range rammed down a greyish mass beneath bubbling suds twiewith her potstick and wie her brow .
— drin ?
’ twixt me and you caddareesh .
let them all come .
he began to scribble on a slip of paper .
his hands in his jacket pockets forgot to salute but he offered to the three ladies the bold admiration of his eyes and the red flower between his lips .
how do you sniff ?
noieof the trams probably .
apoplectic .
i shall be most pleased .
we have him .
quietly he read , restraining himself , the first column and , yielding but resisting , began the second .
— their syphilisation , you mean , says the citie .
simon dedalus said when they put him in parliament that parnell would come back from the grave and lead him out of the house of commons by the arm .
one of them mots that do be in the packets of fags ster smokes that his old fellow welted hell out of him for one tiehe found out .
pillowed on my coat she had her hair , earwigs in the heather scrub my hand under her nape , you will toss me all .
— perfectly true , says bloom .
) _ that ’ s your daughter , you owl , with a mullingar student .
mrbloom stood behind near the font and , when all had knelt , dropped carefully his unfolded newspaper from his pocket and knelt his right knee upon it .
penance for their sins .
send us bright one , light one , horhorn , quickening and wombfruit .
too showy .
they make you kaputt , leopoldleben .
coming down here ragging after the boatraces and paying nothing .
— whose admies ?
— go on , pressed lenehan .
i will make it hot for you .
_ ( a covey of gulls , storm petrels , rie hungrily from liffey slime with banbury cakes in their beaks .
) _ all things end .
molly and josie powell .
three cheers for israel .
) _ i was just beautifying him , do not you know .
hee hee hee .
zoe : and more ’ s mother ?
— _peaks_ , ned lambert went on , _towering high on high , to bathe our souls , as it were . _ — bathe his lips , mrdedalus said .
stphen rustled the sheets again .
shoulders .
changing about .
are you not happy in your home ?
i changed a sovereign i remember .
_ ( loudly .
you ought to make it a dialogue , do not you know , liethe platonic dialogues wilde wrote .
i too .
during the past four minutes or thereabouts he had been staring hard at a certain amount of number one bass bottled by messrs bass and co at burton on - trent which happened to be situated amongst a lot of others right opposieto where he was and which was certainly calculated to attract anyone ’ s remark on account of its scarlet appearance .
i moved among them on the frozen liffey , that i , a changeling , among the spluttering resin fie .
doubled up insieher trying to butt its way out blindly , groping for the way out .
hermit with a platter of pulse keep down the stings of the flesh .
he sprang it open with his thumb and offered it .
autumn .
he droned in vain .
i can see them .
come , mess .
owing to a brick receie in the latter half of the _matinée_ .
matter of fact i was just visiting an old friend of miethere , virag , you do not know him ( poor fellow , he ’ s laid up for the past week ) and we had a liquor together and i was just making my way home . _ ( the horse neighs .
the beaufoy books of love and great possessions , with which your lordship is doubtless familiar , are a household word throughout the kingdom .
insolent drie .
to attendance on your wie
explain you then .
but his heart is buried in rome .
if socrates leave his house today , if judas go forth tonight .
woodwind liegoodwings name .
an elderly man shot up near the spur of rock a blowing red face .
) _ do you remember a long long tie years and years ago , just after milly , marionette we called her , was weaned when we all went together to fairyhouse races , was it ?
they knew : had never learned nor ever been innocent .
only a year or so older than molly .
cracking curriculum .
a sleek brown head , a seal ’ s , far out on the water , round .
sitting or kneeling you could not .
call away let him : _thy quarrons dainty is_ .
she will drown me with her , eyes and hair .
where ’ s that bleeding awfur ?
richie goulding listened .
lieon fish , fishy flesh they have , all seabirds , gulls , seagoose .
he seie solitary paper .
i hear feetstoops .
roundness you think good .
— again , sir .
) _ the nameless one : bareback riding .
i ca not look at the point of it .
moll . we .
watch !
hoarse commands .
of course .
young student .
distant voices : dublings burning !
to be short this passage was scarce by when master dixon of mary in eccles , goodly grinning , asked young stphen what was the reason why he had not cie to take friar ’ s vows and he answered him obedience in the womb , chastity in the tomb but involuntary poverty all his days .
from chickabiddy ’ s owny mumpsypum .
) _ the weather has been so warm .
the gentle art of advertieent .
he had sometie propelled her on warm summer evenings , an infirm widow of independent , if limie , means , in her convalescent bathchair with slow revolutions of its wheels as far as the corner of the north circular road opposiemrgavin low ’ s place of busies where she had remaie for a certain tiescanning through his onelensed binocular fieldglasses unrecognisable cities on tramcars , roadster bicycles equipped with inflated pneumatic tyres , hackney carriages , tandems , private and hie landaus , dogcarts , ponytraps and brakes passing from the city to the phoenix park and _vieversa_ .
bloom : _ ( in dalmatic and purple mantle , to the bishop of down and connor , with dignity .
he unbraced successiey each of six minus one braced trouser buttons , arranged in pairs , of which one incomplete .
— who ?
— yes , mrbloom said .
dear , o dear !
throb always without you and the throb always within .
queer kind of chap .
) _ lenehan : plagiarist !
) _ look . stephen : no , i flew .
she was glad that something told her to put on the transparent stockings thinking reggy wylie might be out but that was far away .
— i am an englishman , haie answered .
or it is the same figure , a year or so gone over , in his first hard hat ( ah , that was a day !
— it is very simple , stphen said as he stood up .
sad case .
zoe : _ ( gaily .
is cissy your sweetheart ?
on the slow weedy waterway he had floated on his raft coastward over ireland drawn by a haulage rope past beds of reeds , over slie mudchoked bottles , carrion dogs .
they turned to the right , following their slow thoughts .
and buy from us .
living in a bogswamp , eating cheap food and the streets paved with dust , horsedung and consumptie ’ spits .
stphen , who confessed to still feeling poorly and fagged out , paused at the , for a moment , the door .
— a poor lookout for corny , mrpower added .
a woman brought sin into the world .
because he was up one tiein a knacker ’ s yard .
combustible duck .
or so they said .
waste of money .
yummyyum , womwom !
the bloodboltered shambles in act fieis a forecast of the concentration camp sung by mrswinburne .
he bent down to regard a lean fieof spearmint growing by the wall .
the grub is ready .
nerves overstrung .
there ’ s a hurricane blowing .
the man that got away james stphens .
she loosened many a man ’ s thighs .
writ , i ween , ’ twas not my wish in lean unlovely english .
_ ( he sticks out a flickering phosphorescent scorpion tongue , his hand on his fork .
let me off this once .
) _ the navvy : _ ( belching .
furthermore , silly milly , she dreamed of having had an unspoken unremembered conversation with a horse whose name had been joseph to whom ( which ) she had offered a tumblerful of lemonade which it ( he ) had appeared to have accepted ( cf hearthdreaming cat ) .
azotes .
giethe paw .
a couch by midwie attended with wholesome food reposeful , cleanest swaddles as though forthbringing were now done and by wieforesight set : but to this no less of what drugs there is need and surgical implements which are pertaining to her case not omitting aspect of all very distracting spectacles in various latitudes by our terrestrial orb offered together with images , divieand human , the cogitation of which by sejunct females is to tumescence conducieor eases issue in the high sunbright wellbuilt fair home of mothers when , ostensibly far gone and reproductitie it is come by her thereto to lie in , her term up .
hell open to christians they were having , jimmy henry said pettishly , about their damned irish language .
henry dear , do not deny my request before my patience are exhausted .
tup .
) _ you had better hand over that cash to me to take care of .
his legal knowledge was great our judges tell us .
the grandest number , stphen , in the whole opera .
_ ( she swishes her huntingcrop savagely in the air .
bloom uncovers himself but , seeing them , frowns , then smie , preoccupied .
and cissy and tommy and jacky ran out to see and edy after with the pushcar and then gerty beyond the curve of the rocks .
_ ( he calls again .
if you give me a hand a second , sergeant . first watch : name and address .
— very good .
be near her ample bedwarmed flesh .
bella : _ ( admiringly .
stll , supposing he had his father ’ s gift as he more than suspected , it opened up new vistas in his mind such as lady fingall ’ s irish industries , concert on the preceding monday , and aristocracy in general .
she is coated with quiea consieable layer of fat .
come forth , lazarus !
the editor cried in scornful invectie
— who ’ s that ?
wonder why he was struck off the rolls .
bloo . me ?
jingling on supple rubbers it jaunted from the bridge to ormond quay .
cissy caffrey : _ ( with expectation .
the voieof dark age , of unlove , earth ’ s fatigue made grave approach and painful , come from afar , from hoary mountains , called on good men and true .
pupil of michael balfe ’ s , was not she ?
bald pat at a sign drew nigh .
— well ?
get up .
birds too .
goulding , a flush struggling in his pale , told mrbloom , face of the night , si in ned lambert ’ s , dedalus house , sang _ ’ twas rank and fame . _ he , mrbloom , listened whiehe , richie goulding , told him , mrbloom , of the night he , richie , heard him , si dedalus , sing _ ’ twas rank and fame_ in his , ned lambert ’ s , house .
here lies poor dogsbody ’ s body .
the carriage halted short .
suffer then .
) _ wait .
he put the huge key in his inner pocket .
a server bearing a brass bucket with something in it came out through a door .
— the kettle is boiling , he said .
but we have also roman law .
who is the father of any son that any son should love him or he any son ?
an article of headgear since ascertaie to belong to the much respected clerk of the crown and peace mrgeorge fottrell and a silk umbrella with gold handle with the engraved initials , crest , coat of arms and house number of the erudieand worshipful chairman of quarter sessions sir frederick falkie , recorder of dublin , have been discovered by search parties in remote parts of the island respectiey , the former on the third basaltic ridge of the giant ’ s causeway , the latter embedded to the extent of one foot three inches in the sandy beach of holeopen bay near the old head of kinsale .
even parnell .
a phial , an agnus dei , a shrieled potato and a celluloid doll fall out .
hoopsa boyaboy hoopsa !
a pack of bloodhounds , led by hornblower of trinity brandishing a dogwhip in tallyho cap and an old pair of grey trousers , follows from far , picking up the scent , nearer , baying , panting , at fault , breaking away , throwing their tongues , biting his heels , leaping at his tail .
best of best brothers .
wonderful eyes they were , superbly expressie but could you trust them ?
pensie ( who knows ?
_o merde alors !
from the belfries far and near the funereal deathbell tolled unceasingly whieall around the gloomy precincts rolled the ominous warning of a hundred muffled drums punctuated by the hollow booming of pieces of ordnance .
i gathered in the course of conversation that he had moved .
come on , you dog gone , bullnecked , beetlebrowed , hogjowled , peanutbraie , weaseleyed fourflushers , false alarms and excess baggage !
their mudcabins and their shielings by the roadsiewere laid low by the batteringram and the _tie_ rubbed its hands and told the whieieed saxons there would soon be as few irish in ireland as redskins in america .
methodist husband .
are you asleep ?
_soll und haben_ by gustav freytag ( black boards , gothic characters , cigarette coupon bookmark at p . <NUMBER> ) .
he handed the card through the brass grill .
— e . eleven , mrbloom answered .
) _ tutti : encore !
shovelling them under by the cartload doublequick .
an obese grey rat toddled along the sieof the crypt , moving the pebbles .
whie
dignam carted off .
the tree of forbidden priest .
graft , my dear sir .
are you hurt ?
let us drink our pints in peace .
got off lightly with illnesses compared .
nothing liea dressy appearance .
better add postscript .
i daresay the soil would be quiefat with corpsemanure , bones , flesh , nails .
bloom : gentlemen of the jury , let me explain .
a bridge is across a rie .
— are you not coming in ?
mrmarion bloom .
he felt heavy , full : then a gentle loosening of his bowels .
i must get a wash tomorrow or next day .
bloom , in gloom , looms down .
) _ stp !
he places a hand lightly on his breastbone , bows , and fondles his flower and buttons .
remember her laughing at the wind , her blizzard collar up .
_ ( he ducks and wards off a blow clumsily .
— good , stphen said .
tanderagee wants the facts and means to get them .
faith , no , he says , frank ( that was his name ) , ’ tis all about kerry cows that are to be butchered along of the plague .
then the insie decompose quickly .
the horse harness jingles .
) _ the choir : liliata rutilantium te confessorum . iubilantium te virginum . _ ( from the top of a tower buck mulligan , in particoloured jester ’ s dress of puce and yellow and clown ’ s cap with curling bell , stands gaping at her , a smoking buttered split scone in his hand .
walking mackintosh of lonely canyon .
unfallen adam rode and not rutted .
too slow for boylan , blazes boylan , impatience boylan , joggled the mare .
the yews : _ ( their silverfoil of leaves precipitating , their skinny arms aging and swaying .
shy but willing liean ass pissing .
i will tell you .
bloom : _ ( wearing a purple napoleon hat with an amber halfmoon , his fingers and thumb passing slowly down to her soft moist meaty palm which she surrenders gently .
they are in grey gauze with dark bat sleeves that flutter in the land breeze .
first watch : the offence complaie of ?
u p : up .
knobby knuckles for the women .
coinciece .
— is that first epistle to the hebrews , he asked as soon as his bottom jaw would let him , in ?
no .
mrbest pleaded .
that brings those rakes of fellows in : her whie
or she knew him , that second i say , and was but creature of her creature , _vergiemadre , figlia di tuo figlio_ , or she knew him not and then stands she in the one denial or ignorancy with peter piscator who lie in the house that jack built and with joseph the joie patron of the happy demieof all unhappy marriages , _parceque m léo taxil nous a dit que qui l ’ avait miedans cette fichue position c ’ était le sacré pien , ventre de dieu !
her hair is scant and lank .
no , peter claver i am thinking of .
o shiey !
i am thirteen .
only namesakes .
who ’ s dead , when and what did he die of ?
the unfair sex .
with a saffron kilt ?
he was himself a lord of language and had made himself a coistrel gentleman and he had written _romeo and juliet_ .
valuation is only twentyeight .
— i , says joe .
he took a reel of dental floss from his waistcoat pocket and , breaking off a piece , twanged it smartly between two and two of his resonant unwashed teeth .
my fieorks .
) _ i gave it to nelly to stick in her belly , the leg of the duck , the leg of the duck .
his eyes met mrbloom ’ s eyes .
bloom mur : best references .
always gie a woman clumsy feet .
ten shillings a tie
— that ’ s right , father cowley said .
the representatiepeers put on at the same tietheir twentyeight crowns .
god , you have to book ahead , man , you had think it was for the carl rosa .
depends on the tiethey were born i suppose .
could not ask him at a funeral , though .
he went on by la maison claie
full of a dure .
what recurrent impressions of the same were possible by hypothesis ?
— how did that canada swindle case go off ?
how many have you left ?
dolphings barn .
george lidwell , suave , solicie , held a lydiahand .
stll hear it better here than in the bar though farther .
wait awhie
if you do not answer when they solicit must be horrible for them till they harden .
their blood is in me , their lusts my waves .
i am the murderer of samuel childs .
first of the month it must have been or the second .
— and as for the prooshians and the hanoverians , says joe , have not we had enough of those sausageeating bastards on the throne from george the elector down to the german lad and the flatulent old bitch that ’ s dead ?
— i want to see about that french horse that ’ s running today , bantam lyons said .
) _ yes .
screwed refusing to pay his fare .
) _ ow !
polie
i suggested to him about a transparent showcart with two smart girls sitting insiewriting letters , copybooks , envelopes , blottingpaper .
richie goulding and the legal bag .
mro ’ connell shook all their hands in siece .
tight , dear .
that makes three and a penny .
on the other hand it was altogether far and away too late for the sandymount or sandycove suggestion so that he was in some perplexity as to which of the two alternatie .
between two roaring worlds where they swirl , i shatter them , one and both .
brieed , childbed , bed of death , ghostcandled .
private carr : here .
a good layer .
stphen turned his gaze from the sea and to the plump face with its smokeblue mobieeyes .
— bloom , he said , madame marion tweedy that was , is , i mean , the soprano .
buss her , wap in rogues ’ rum lingo , for , o , my dimber wapping dell !
ah ?
nice name he .
must .
lynch : three wievirgins .
bloom : _ ( as before .
wo not that be nie
) _ here , kiss that .
that priest .
she taunts him .
both indurated by early domestic training and an inherie tenacity of heterodox resistance professed their disbelief in many orthodox religious , national , social and ethical doctrie .
stll : but an itch of death is in them , to tell me in my ear a maudlin tale , urge me to wreak their will .
the lord mayor was there , val dillon it was , and sir charles cameron and dan dawson spoke and there was music .
lieis too short .
silk flash rich stockings whie
the world is mie
_ — sonnez ! _ smack .
lyster : _ ( in quakergrey kneebreeches and broadbrimmed hat , says discreetly .
more put out about a hole in her stocking .
a collision ensues the bell whirred again as he rang off .
look at the young scamps after him .
who ’ s dear gerald ?
we ought to have hats modelled on our heads .
better gieway only half way the way of a man with a maid .
— he ’ s at rest , he said , in the middle of his people , old dan o ’ .
everyone says i am quiethe belle in my new tam .
with thumb and palm corny kelleher reassures that the two bobbies will allow the sleep to continue for what else is to be done .
_that one , is it ? _ says chris callinan , _sure that ’ s only what you might call a pinprick . _ by god , he was not far wieof the mark .
one of her sisterhood lugged me squealing into lie
pointed cuffs .
i see them .
a seventh gravedigger came besiemrbloom to take up an idle spade .
bloom : _ ( bows .
_ ( his head aslant he blesses curtly with fore and middle fingers , imparts the easter kiss and doubleshuffles off comically , swaying his hat from sieto sie shrinking quickly to the sieof his trainbearers .
young colum and strkey .
she provie : at quarter day or thereabouts if or when purchases had been made by him not for her she showed herself attentieto his necessities , anticipating his desie .
he sank two lumps of sugar deftly longwiethrough the whipped cream .
the waggoner marching at their head saluted .
mouth dry .
both admitted the alternately stimulating and obtunding influence of heterosexual magnetism .
he said with rich acrid utterance to the assistant town clerk .
i do not remember anything .
salt junk all the tie
if you leave a bit of codfish for instance .
heart on his sleeve .
_ ( he slaps her face .
really , mrbloom said ( though first he fancied he alluded to the archbishop till he added about foot and mouth with which there could be no possible connection ) overjoyed to set his mind at rest and a bit flabbergasted at myles crawford ’ s after all managing to .
stictly confietial .
whisper .
sent his heir over to make the king an austrian fieldmarshal now .
pray , good people !
i will gieten to one !
i thought it would .
— four bootlaces for a penny .
very well then , i contradict myself .
stphen turned boldly in his chair .
scott of dawson street .
and then laughed more .
big benben .
for ulster will fight and ulster will be right .
’ tis the hour , methinks , when the wieug , metaphorically speaking , is most grateful in ye ancient hostelry .
i will prove . a voice : swear !
a sunburst appears in the northwest .
out half the night .
on a step a gnome totting among a rubbishtip crouches to shoulder a sack of rags and bones .
the way of all our old industries .
he turned combridge ’ s corner , still pursued .
master brunny lynam ran across the road and put father conmee ’ s letter to father provincial into the mouth of the bright red letterbox .
he caught himself in the act : looked at all : refraie .
germans making their way everywhere .
leopold , yes .
o jays , into the men ’ s porter .
niemixup .
august bank holiday , only two and six return .
that was a rare bit of horseflesh .
o , look what i found in professor goodwings hat !
the way she ’ s holding up her bit of a skirt .
here i am .
in inisfail the fair there lies a land , the land of holy michan .
_ ( he sighs , draws back and stares sieays down with dropping underjaw .
blessed and eternal god !
_ ( the fronds and spaces of the wallpaper fierapidly across country .
as much as his bloody lieis worth to go down and address his tall talk to the assembled multitude in shanagolden where he dare not show his nose with the molly maguie looking for him to let daylight through him for grabbing the holding of an evicted tenant .
what points of contact existed between these languages and between the peoples who spoke them ?
stp .
they stopped .
aims .
he crossed to the bright sie avoiding the loose cellarflap of number seventyfie
astounding !
— those who are married , mrbest , douce herald , said , all save one , shall lie
i am just waiting for ben dollard .
i know him .
the cane moved out trembling to the left .
flood , gush , flow , joygush , tupthrob .
florry and bella push the table towards the fielace .
_bonsoir la compagnie_ .
his smiefaded as he walked , a heavy cloud hiding the sun slowly , shadowing trinity ’ s surly front .
what involuntary actions followed ?
virag is going to talk about amputation .
— that will do , professor machugh cried from the window .
musical porkers .
jolly for the wie
— who can answer a riddle ?
there ’ s music everywhere .
bring the camera whenever you lie
you are dreaming .
i hold this house .
returned with thanks having fully dieted the contents .
terrible .
a spanish prisoner ’ s donation of a distant treasure of valuables or specie or bullion lodged with a solvent banking corporation <NUMBER> years previously at <NUMBER> compound interest of the collectieworth of £ <NUMBER> stg ( fiemillion pounds sterling ) .
— that will do , mrdeasy said briskly .
her crocus dress she wore lowcut , belongings on show .
baldhead over the blind .
stnned lie seeing as how no shies is acoming .
about her windraw face hair traie .
far .
) _ hajajaja .
you were going to do wonders , what ?
at least that ’ s my ie for what it ’ s worth .
hoarse , masked and armed , the planters ’ covenant .
bloom : _ ( tries to laugh .
and she with her nose cockahoop after she married him because a cousin of his old fellow ’ s was pewopener to the pope .
— well .
tie , myriadislanded , within her , blood not mie _oinopa ponton_ , a wieark sea .
he heard then a warm heavy sigh , softer , as she turned over and the loose brass quoits of the bedstead jingled .
) _ night .
visszontlátásra ! _ gone but not forgotten .
my ear against the wall to hear .
the right honourable william humble , earl of dudley , g c v o , passed micky anderson ’ s all tie ticking watches and henry and james ’ s wax smartsuie freshcheeked models , the gentleman henry , _dernier cri_ james .
he halted again and bought from the old applewoman two banbury cakes for a penny and broke the brittle paste and threw its fragments down into the liffey .
mrs bellingham : _ ( in cap and seal coney mantle , wrapped up to the nose , steps out of her brougham and scans through tortoiehell quizzing glasses which she takes from insieher huge opossum muff .
_ ( all the people cast soft pantomiestones at bloom .
_esprit de corps_ .
bloom picks it up and throws it in the grate .
youth .
buzz .
cramped in this carriage .
who cleopatra , fleshpot of egypt , and cressid and venus are we may guess .
anyhow he was all in .
) _ immense !
) _ stange how they take to me .
doctor finucane pronounced lieextinct when i succumbed to the diese from natural causes .
did he remain ?
published by authority in the year one thousand and .
yes , he ’ s here still .
her friend covering the display of .
miss kennedy served two gentlemen with tankards of cool stout .
country bumpkings queries .
abnegation ?
— _what ’ s wrong with him_ ?
i will wrieto a powerful prostitute or bartholomona , the bearded woman , to raieweals out on him an inch thick and make him bring me back a signed and stamped receipt .
— that ’ s the style , mrdedalus said , nodding to its drone .
and when her mother had those raging splitting headaches who was it rubbed the menthol cone on her forehead but gerty though she did not lieher mother ’ s taking pinches of snuff and that was the only single thing they ever had words about , taking snuff .
he came forward a pace and stood by the table .
troy measure .
a basilisk .
her posies too !
i belongs there .
and master lynch bade him have a care to flout and witwanton as the god self was angered for his hellprate and paganry .
eglintoneyes , quick with pleasure , looked up shybrightly .
juno , she cried , i am undone .
fifty yards measured .
tobaccoshopgirls .
that ’ s the maxim of the law .
keep that thing up for hours .
my missus sang there once .
what if that nightmare gave you a back kick ?
black .
— off blackpitts , stphen said .
perhaps only mr field is going .
_poor little paddy dignam_ , he said .
in aid of funds for mercer ’ s hospital .
all i want is a little tie
seventy beds keeps he there teeming mothers are wont that they lie for to thole and bring forth bairns hale so god ’ s angel to mary quoth .
but she , the giglot wanton , did not break a bedvow .
two topboots jog dangling on to dublin .
bloom : _ ( with feeling .
those today .
warm shoe .
— o , draw him out , martin , mrpower said eagerly .
did you not know that ?
influential friends .
all want to be on good terms with him .
so now you know what i will do to you , you naughty boy , if you do not wrote .
o rose !
<NUMBER> years before in <NUMBER> when bloom was of stphen ’ s present age stphen was <NUMBER> .
) _ bella , zoe , kitty , lynch , bloom : _ ( chattering and squabbling .
jousts .
mrbloom , availing himself of the right of free speech , he having just a bowing acquaintance with the language in dispute , though , to be sure , rather in a quandary over _voglio_ , remarked to his _protégé_ in an audible tone of voie_à propos_ of the battle royal in the street which was still raging fast and furious : — a beautiful language .
mrcunningham ’ s letter .
our windingsheet .
private compton : say !
i question with you there , says he .
cheers . )
she cried , running to lap .
and therefore when he was urged , as i believe , to name her he left her his secondbest bed .
the figures whieed in his mind , unsolved : displeased , he let them fade .
i begin to liethem at that age .
mortal !
the aunt thinks you killed your mother .
roastbeef for old england .
pie clash on cuirasses .
proceed to nearest canteen and there annex liquor stores .
i was in china and north america and south america .
o , that ’ s exquisie
with what sensations did bloom contemplate in rotation these objects ?
grain supplies through the narrow waters of the channel .
wanted lieman for spirit counter .
it is amusing to view the unpar one ar alleled embarra two ars is it ?
always the same , year after year .
immediate siece .
i will tickle his catastrophe , believe you me .
— i am afraid i am due at the _homestead . _ whither away ?
did you meet him ?
fanned by a constant updraught of ventilation between the kitchen and the chimneyflue , ignition was communicated from the faggots of precombustible fuel to polyhedral masses of bituminous coal , containing in compressed mieal form the foliated fossilie decidua of prieal forests which had in turn derie their vegetatieexistence from the sun , primal source of heat ( radiant ) , transmitted through omnipresent luminieous diathermanous ether .
i want to know .
he changed his name to de wet , the boer general .
she asked .
— wait awhie mrdedalus said threateningly .
tarnally dog gone my shins if this beent the bestest puttiest longbreak yet .
gazing upon those features with a world of tenderness , ah , monsieur , he said , had you but beheld her as i did with these eyes at that affecting instant with her dainty tucker and her new coquette cap ( a gift for her feastday as she told me prettily ) in such an artless disorder , of so melting a tenderness , ’ pon my conscience , even you , monsieur , had been impelled by generous nature to delie yourself wholly into the hands of such an enemy or to quit the field for ever .
he said kindly .
he will come to all right .
a nation is the same people living in the same place .
the lady gwendolen dubedat bursts through the throng , leaps on his horse and kisses him on both cheeks amid great acclamation .
— why ?
winner traie by braieso that lenehan ’ s version of the busies was all pure buncombe .
— pretty countryfolk had few chattels then , john eglinton observed , as they have still if our peasant plays are true to type .
a hobgoblin in the image of punch costello , hipshot , crookbacked , hydrocephalic , prognathic with receding forehead and ally sloper nose , tumbles in somersaults through the gathering darkness .
that will go in .
) _ my methods are new and are causing surprie
— to be sure , poor fellow .
playing cards , hobnobbing with flash toffs with a swank glass in their eye , adrinking fizz and he half smothered in writs and garnishee orders .
right , sir .
) _ and the rest !
she ’ s passing now .
besie he said the picture was handsome which , say what you lie it was though at the moment she was distinctly stouter .
so they started talking about capital punishment and of course bloom comes out with the why and the wherefore and all the codology of the busies and the old dog smelling him all the tiei am told those jewies does have a sort of a queer odour coming off them for dogs about i do not know what all deterrent effect and so forth and so on .
boody , breaking big chunks of bread into the yellow soup , added : — our father who art not in heaven .
) _ here !
they like them sieble .
am i not going there ?
he scrambled up by the stones , water glistening on his pate and on its garland of grey hair , water rilling over his chest and paunch and spilling jets out of his black sagging loincloth .
an example ?
pour out the tea there .
wait .
yes , mrbloom thoroughly agreed , entiey endorsing the remark , that was overwhelmingly right .
her stockings are loose over her ankles .
the wellknown and highly respected worker in the cause of our old tongue , mrjoseph m ’ carthy hynes , made an eloquent appeal for the resuscitation of the ancient gaelic sports and pastie , practie morning and evening by finn maccool , as calculated to reviethe best traditions of manly strength and prowess handed down to us from ancient ages .
i looked so simple in the cradle they christened me simple simon .
martin cunningham , speaking always , showed often the list at which jimmy henry did not glance .
watercloset .
wonder how he looks at lie
o how i long to meet you .
_ ( bloom , mumbling , his eyes downcast , begins to bestow his parcels in his filled pockets but desists , muttering .
that ’ s not liefor men and women , insult and hatred .
o god , yes !
at the same tiehe inwardly chuckled over his gentle repartee to the blood and ouns champion about his god being a jew .
which is which ?
his hand fell to his sieagain .
all crossed themselves and stood up .
drss up and look and suggest and let you see and see more and defy you if you are a man to see that and , liea sneeze coming , legs , look , look and if you have any guts in you .
it was my funeral .
quietly , unassumingly rumbold stepped on to the scaffold in faultless morning dress and wearing his favourieflower , the _gladiolus cruentus_ .
ow !
iron nerves .
profssor machugh came from the inner offie
obvious analogy to my ie .
) _ if it were he ?
frankly , though she had her advies or admies , i never cared much for her style .
but his boywomen are the women of a boy .
used to get good retaies from d and t fitzgerald .
) _ i bet she ’ s a bonny lassie .
her antiquity in preceding and surviving successietellurian generations : her nocturnal predominance : her satellitic dependence : her luminary reflection : her constancy under all her phases , rising and setting by her appointed tie , waxing and waning : the forced invariability of her aspect : her indeterminate response to inaffirmatieinterrogation : her potency over effluent and refluent waters : her power to enamour , to mortify , to invest with beauty , to render insane , to incieto and aid delinquency : the tranquil inscrutability of her visage : the terribility of her isolated dominant implacable resplendent propinquity : her omens of tempest and of calm : the stimulation of her light , her motion and her presence : the admonition of her craters , her arid seas , her siece : her splendour , when visible : her attraction , when invisible .
. mind who you are pinching . are you staying the night or a short tie .
mrbloom set his thigh down .
) _ and words .
you saved men from drowning .
empty vessels make most noie
boys are they ?
me .
disgrace him , i will !
by what reflections did he , a conscious reactor against the void of incertitude , justify to himself his sentiets ?
_ ( he twitches .
magnetic needle tells you what ’ s going on in the sun , the stars .
i know .
true in the larger analysis .
) _ you have the advantage of me .
richie , admiring , descanted on that man ’ s glorious voie
) _ hound of dishonour !
absolutely it .
one tony relatiein every family .
— and leave it to my hands , she said .
bloom .
stphen , still trembling at his soul ’ s cry , heard warm running sunlight and in the air behind him friendly words .
the good bishop of cloyne took the veil of the temple out of his shovel hat : veil of space with coloured emblems hatched on its field .
paddy leonard and bantam lyons came in .
he scratches himself with crossed arms at his ribs , grimacing , and exclaims : ) _ i am suffering the agony of the damned .
why solitary ( ipsorelatie ?
bloom : _ ( apologetically .
_tableau ! _ o , look who it is for the love of god !
come .
lynch scares it with a kick .
_slan leath .
a <NUMBER> th typewritten letter receie by henry flower ( let h f be l
he wears a slate frockcoat with claret silk lapels , a gorget of cream tulle , a green lowcut waistcoat , stock collar with whiekerchief , tight lavender trousers , patent pumps and canary gloves .
halcyon days .
ghostly light on the tortured face .
well for you , you muff , if you had that weapon with knobs and lumps and warts all over it .
righto , isaacs , shove em out of the bleeding lieight .
every jolt the bloody car gave i had her bumping up against me .
bloom : _ ( fainting .
— neat bit of work , one longshoreman said .
) _ tom rochford : _ ( a hand to his breastbone , bows .
virginia creepers .
not for nothing was he a butcher ’ s son , wielding the sledded poleaxe and spitting in his palms .
potted meats .
old drmurren ’ s .
my smelling salts !
red rails fly spacewards .
a million pounds , wait a moment .
tap .
the drum turns purring in low hesitation waltz .
had it ?
i will read the rest after .
it was pat farrell shoved me , sir .
zoe : _ ( briskly .
headshake .
turnkey ’ s daughter got him out of richmond , off from lusk .
— send it at once , will you ?
special recie
— the assistant town clerk ’ s corns are giving him some trouble , john wyse nolan told mrpower .
a door on the return landing is flung open .
trieste zurich - paris <NUMBER> - 1921 * end of the project gutenberg ebook ulysses * * this fieshould be named <NUMBER> - 0 . txt or <NUMBER> - 0 . zip * this and all associated fie of various formats will be found in : <URL> / updated editions will replace the previous one - the old editions will be renamed .
he tore away half the priestory sharply and wie himself with it .
o lust our refuge and our strength .
foot to foot , knee to knee , belly to belly , bubs to breast !
and in a ladychapel another taking housel all to his own cheek .
some good matronly woman in a porkpie hat to mother him .
but gerty was adamant .
pat to and fro .
but the braggart boaster cried that an old nobodaddy was in his cups it was muchwhat indifferent and he would not lag behind his lead .
lord , i must not lilt here .
devils they are when that ’ s coming on them .
he unbuttoned successiey in reversed dietion waistcoat , trousers , shirt and vest along the medial lieof irregular incrispated black hairs extending in triangular convergence from the pelvic basin over the circumference of the abdomen and umbilicular fossicle along the medial lieof nodes to the intersection of the sixth pectoral vertebrae , thence produced both ways at right angles and terminating in circles descrie about two equidistant points , right and left , on the summits of the mammary promieces .
miss kenn out of earshot .
— someone killed her , stphen said gloomily .
) _ this silken purse i made out of the sow ’ s ear of the public .
we grew by poulaphouca waterfall .
) _ came from a hot place .
bacilikil ( insect powder ) .
— what , sir ?
this way .
get it out in bits .
— afraid of the chickens she is , he said mockingly .
liepool ring which jockeyed the galway harbour scheme .
says i
blue bloom is on the rye .
corny kelleher replies with a ghastly lewd smie
new worlds for old .
you never saw the lieof it in all your born puff .
where was the marshal , he wanted to know , to keep order in the council chamber .
a silk ladder of innumerable rungs climbs to his bobbing howdah .
answer something .
that ’ s an almanac picture for you .
) _ eh ?
olie cheaper : oranges need artificial irrigation .
wonder if it ’ s bad to go with them then .
as a philosopher he knew that at the termination of any allotted lieonly an infinieimal part of any person ’ s desie has been realie .
milly has a position down in mullingar , you know .
with a cry he suddenly vanished and the panel slid back .
_ ( she hauls up a reef of skirt and ransacks the pouch of her strie blay petticoat .
) _ well , it was in the papers about antichrist .
laur .
tuck and turn in .
i tried it .
says joe .
she did not like her plate full .
* * * katey and boody dedalus shoved in the door of the closesteaming kitchen .
— what ’ s wrong ?
heave to .
his wallface frowned weakly .
bloom tightens and loosens his grip on the ashplant .
you wo not get a virgin in the flash houses .
for what creature was the door of egress a door of ingress ?
say robinson crusoe was true to lie
o yes , every tie
mother ’ s milk , purefoy , the milk of human kin , milk too of those burgeoning stars overhead rutilant in thin rainvapour , punch milk , such as those rioters will quaff in their guzzling den , milk of madness , the honeymilk of canaan ’ s land .
it ’ s the force of gravity of the earth is the weight .
email contact links and up to date contact information can be found at the foundation ' s website and official page at <URL> section <NUMBER> .
the ends of the world with a scotch accent .
nebulous obscurity occupies space .
and the other one lizzie twigg .
— the sheeny !
his midriff yearned then upward , sank within him , yearned more longly , longingly .
dead he was not .
wild sea money .
lord tennyson : _ ( gentleman poet in union jack blazer and cricket flannels , bareheaded , flowingbearded .
— i have rebel blood in me too , mrdeasy said .
) _ what ’ s his name ?
his wiewill put the stopper on that .
dear ger , that you ?
i can scarce believe ’ tis so bad , says he .
or ?
and his old fellow before him perpetrating frauds , old methusalem bloom , the robbing bagman , that poisoned himself with the prussic acid after he swamping the country with his baubles and his penny diamonds .
i feel so lonely .
it was in a kilkenny paper .
all is lost now .
dist .
whisper .
_ ( he belches .
— yes , sir .
lynch !
for a plump of pressmen .
and these , the stoneheaps of dead builders , a warren of weasel rats .
i want to see the citie .
) _ i bear no hate to a living thing , but i love my country beyond the king .
and he got them out as quick as he could , jack power and crofton or whatever you call him and him in the middle of them letting on to be all at sea and up with them on the bloody jaunting car .
she could without difficulty , he said , have posed for the ensemble , not to dwell on certain opulent curves of the .
talking of one thing or another .
shop closes early on thursday .
hospiefor the dying .
and the traveller leopold went into the castle for to rest him for a space being sore of limb after many marches environing in dies lands and sometievenery .
you know that red carlisle girl , lily ?
and gold flushed more .
old mrverschoyle with the ear trumpet loves old mrverschoyle with the turnedin eye .
mullingar .
better be shoving along .
barbed wie
forget , forgie
what ’ s keeping our friend ?
one , two .
mrbloom dressed yet ?
tom rochford , winner , in athlete ’ s singlet and breeches , arrie at the head of the national hurdle handicap and leaps into the void .
hi !
coarse red : fun for drunkards : guffaw and smoke .
— what about paying our respects to our friend ?
stphen laid the shavingbowl on the locker .
then i will tell you all .
retreating , at the terminus of the great northern railway , amiens street , with constant uniform acceleration , along parallel lie meeting at infinity , if produced : along parallel lie , reproduced from infinity , with constant uniform retardation , at the terminus of the great northern railway , amiens street , returning .
it ’ s a toss up , i think .
celestials .
jubie mutton .
pillar of salt .
in consequence of a family complex he has temporarily lost his memory and i believe him to be more sinned against than sinning .
thirsty fox .
— they went forth to battle , mro ’ madden burke said greyly , but they always fell .
what were stphen ’ s and bloom ’ s quasisimultaneous volitional quasiesations of concealed ietities ?
a frowsy whore with black straw sailor hat askew came glazily in the day along the quay towards mrbloom .
he began : _ — mrchairman , ladies and gentlemen : great was my admiration in listening to the remarks addressed to the youth of ireland a moment since by my learned friend .
nosey flynn sipped his grog .
eyes , walk , voie
the sphincter loose .
he was simply and solely , as it subsequently transpie for reasons best known to himself , which put quiean altogether different complexion on the proceedings , after the moment before ’ s observations about boyhood days and the turf , recollecting two or three private transactions of his own which the other two were as mutually innocent of as the babe unborn .
_ ( he holds out an ointment jar .
stphen dedalus stepped up , followed him wearily halfway and sat down on the edge of the gunrest , watching him still as he propped his mirror on the parapet , dipped the brush in the bowl and lathered cheeks and neck .
and , spent , its speech ceases .
i will scourge the pienlieed cur as long as i can stand over him .
but the courtiers who mocked guido in or san michele were in their own house .
lovers : yum yum .
is that the eldest boy in front ?
— in the midst of lie martin cunningham said .
thousands every hour .
must get glasses .
occasionally he drank voraciously the juieof gooseberry fool from an inclie plate .
by a periphrastic version of the general text .
a telegram boy stepped in nimbly , threw an envelope on the counter and stepped off posthaste with a word : _ — freeman ! _ mrbloom said slowly : — well , he is one of our saviours also .
a kind of a bridge .
inadvertently her backview revealed the fact that she is not wearing those rather intimate garments of which you are a particular devotee .
see .
musing .
a scheme to enclose the peninsular delta of the north bull at dollymount and erect on the space of the foreland , used for golf links and rifle ranges , an asphalted esplanade with casinos , booths , shooting galleries , hotels , boardinghouses , readingrooms , establishments for mie bathing .
round the kish in eighty days .
four buglers on foot blow a sennet .
two and six .
— thank you , stphen said , taking a cigarette .
man loves her yoni fiercely with big lingam , the stiff one .
i say !
wash and shampoo .
a bit off the top .
john eglinton laughed .
stbborn as a mule !
hence , in passivity , in economy , in the instinct of tradition , in unexpectedness , their differences were similar .
his quickened heart slowed at once .
private carr : _ ( loosening his belt , shouts .
not think .
lockhart ’ s _lieof napoleon_ ( cover wanting , marginal annotations , minimising victories , aggrandising defeats of the protagonist ) .
best value in dublin .
drhy franks .
you see he ’ s incapable .
bathwater too .
yes : completely .
land him in chokeechokee if the harman beck copped the game .
stp and say a word : about the funeral perhaps .
quaffing nectar at mess with gods golden dishes , all ambrosial .
— come , he said .
it is cured .
wait till i show you .
by inserting the barrel of an arruginated male key in the hole of an unstable female lock , obtaining a purchase on the bow of the key and turning its wards from right to left , withdrawing a bolt from its staple , pulling inward spasmodically an obsolescent unhinged door and revealing an aperture for free egress and free ingress .
you saw only your mother die .
nieyoung student that was dressed that biethe bee gave me .
o , there !
accordingly he broke his mind to his neighbour , saying that , to express his notion of the thing , his opinion ( who ought not perchance to express one ) was that one must have a cold constitution and a frigid genius not to be rejoie by this freshest news of the fruition of her confieent since she had been in such pain through no fault of hers .
he gazed round the stooled and tabled eaters , tightening the wings of his nose .
old bloom .
how first he saw that form endearing , how sorrow seemed to part , how look , form , word charmed him gould lidwell , won pat bloom ’ s heart .
— how do you know that ?
but i will fight for the right till the end .
a liefate awaits him and the two rages commingle in a whirlpool .
cut your hand open .
first rate , sir .
the citizen : _ ( choked with emotion , brushes asiea tear in his emerald muffler .
she leads him towards the steps , drawing him by the odour of her armpits , the vieof her painted eyes , the rustle of her slip in whose sinuous folds lurks the lion reek of all the male brutes that have possessed her .
stpped short never to go again when the old .
besieher a camel , hooded with a turreting turban , waits .
say the following talisman three tie with hands folded : — _se el yilo nebrakada femininum !
setting up house for her tieafter tieand then pawning the furniture on him every saturday almost .
bits all khrrrrklak in place clack back .
_ ( to the court .
after his good lunch in earlsfort terrace .
then he said to haie : — the unclean bard makes a point of washing once a month .
mrbloom moved behind the portly kindly caretaker .
o , i much fear he shall be most badly burned .
bloom : _ ( strts up , seie her hand .
) _ sister .
not by a long shot if i know it .
_ ( he horserie cockhorse , leaping in the , in the saddle .
_ ( he points his finger .
they ought to have some law to pierce the heart and make sure or an electric clock or a telephone in the coffin and some kind of a canvas airhole .
good ie the latin .
with faraway mourning mountain eye .
turn now on .
everyone wants to .
a bird sat tamely perched on a poplar branch .
corny .
suppose she did pygmalion and galatea what would she say first ?
love , moya !
he stopped at each , took out a communion , shook a drop or two ( are they in water ? )
i saw him up at that meeting now with william field , m p , the cattle traders .
_ ( stphen claps hat on head and leaps over to the fielace where he stands with shrugged shoulders , finny hands outspread , a painted smile on his face .
_ ( bella raie her gown slightly and , steadying her pose , lifts to the edge of a chair a plump buskie hoof and a full pastern , silksocked .
he has a strain of it in his blood .
could you ?
— imperthnthn thnthnthn , bootssnout sniffed rudely , as he retreated as she threatened as he had come .
all honeycombed the ground must be : oblong cells .
thursday : not a good day either for a mutton kidney at buckley ’ s .
what syllabus of intellectual pursuits was simultaneously possible ?
dedalus ’ daughter there still outsiedillon ’ s auctionrooms .
wren had one the other day at the auction but a lady ’ s .
he tossed it off the pan on to a plate and let the scanty brown gravy trickle over it .
funny , very !
smarts they still , sickness soothing : in twelve moons thriean hundred .
— the ship , buck mulligan cried .
see it in your eye .
soon i am old .
young woman enters .
when citybound frequent connection by train or tram from their respectieintermediate station or terminal .
pray for the repose of the soul of .
what ?
one lieis all .
made him feel a bit peckish .
tieome kind of a job .
zoe : _ ( stffly , her finger in her neckfillet .
— your _beau , _ is it ?
two bar entrance , soldiers half prie
after you with our incorporated drinkingcup .
) _ a little frivol , shall we , if you are so inclie ?
lapwing be .
france produces the fiet flower of corruption in mallarmé but the desirable lieis revealed only to the poor of heart , the lieof homer ’ s phæacians .
paddy leonard : thank you .
) _ and done !
messenger took out his matchbox thoughtfully and lit his cigar .
between the car and window , warily walking , went bloom , unconquered hero .
amen .
three we have .
fie
nit .
and they laughed , sporting in a circle of their foam : and the bark clave the waves .
lewd chimpanzee .
what perfume does your wieuse ?
gulp .
— sweet almond oil and tincture of benzoin , mrbloom said , and then orangeflower water .
those old popes keen on music , on art and statues and pictures of all kinds .
after them march gentlemen of the bedchamber , black rod , deputy garter , gold stck , the master of horse , the lord great chamberlain , the earl marshal , the high constable carrying the sword of state , saint stphen ’ s iron crown , the chalieand bible .
what impression of an absent face did bloom , arrested , sietly recall ?
heard from behind .
the operatiesurgical quality but that he was reluctant to shed human blood even when the end justified the means , preferring , in their natural order , heliotherapy , psychophysicotherapeutics , osteopathic surgery .
venus has twisted her lips in prayer .
lenehan gets some good ones .
never know anything about it .
appointment we made knowing we had never , well hardly ever .
diningroom .
tuned probably .
fellow always liethat , mortified if women are by .
— you got more than that , father , dilly said .
stphen , his throat itching , answered : — the fox burying his grandmother under a hollybush .
how are things ?
six and eightpence , please .
friend of the family .
it is between the lie of his last written words , it is petrified on his tombstone under which her four bones are not to be laid .
i hope i am not . — no , says martin , we are ready .
miss douce withdrew her satiny arm , reproachful , pleased .
with a keep quiet relief his eyes took note this is the street here middle of the day of bob doran ’ s bottle shoulders .
haie , come in .
the halldoor turned gradually on its hinges .
_ ( she puts the potato greedily into a pocket then links his arm , cuddling him with supple warmth .
stered by an umbrella sword to the footlights : mario the tenor .
a vere foster ’ s handwriting copybook , property of milly ( milliet ) bloom , certain pages of which bore diagram drawings , marked _papli_ , which showed a large globular head with <NUMBER> hairs erect , <NUMBER> eyes in profie the trunk full front with <NUMBER> large buttons , <NUMBER> triangular foot : <NUMBER> fading photographs of queen alexandra of england and of maud branscombe , actress and professional beauty : a yuletiecard , bearing on it a pictorial representation of a parasitic plant , the legend _mizpah_ , the date xmas <NUMBER> , the name of the senders : from mr + mrm comerford , the versicle : _may this yuletiebring to thee , joy and peace and welcome glee_ : a butt of red partly liquefied sealing wax , obtaie from the stores department of messrs hely ’ s , ltd . , <NUMBER> , <NUMBER> , and <NUMBER> dame street : a box containing the remainder of a gross of gilt “ j ” pennibs , obtaie from same department of same firm : an old sandglass which rolled containing sand which rolled : a sealed prophecy ( never unsealed ) written by leopold bloom in <NUMBER> concerning the consequences of the passing into law of william ewart gladstone ’ s home rule bill of <NUMBER> ( never passed into law ) : a bazaar ticket , no <NUMBER> , of s kevings charity fair , prie6d , <NUMBER> prie : an infantieepistle , dated , small em monday , reading : capital pee papli comma capital aitch how are you note of interrogation capital eye i am very well full stop new paragraph signature with flourishes capital em milly no stop : a cameo brooch , property of ellen bloom ( born higgins ) , deceased : a cameo scarfpin , property of rudolph bloom ( born virag ) , deceased : <NUMBER> typewritten letters , addressee , henry flower , c / o .
no !
he may suffer their memory to grow dim , let them be as though they had not been and all but persuade himself that they were not or at least were otherwie
but want a good memory .
bloom : _ ( in workman ’ s corduroy overalls , black gansy with red floating tie and apache cap .
) _ instinct rules the world .
drnk liethe devil till it turns adelie
[ <NUMBER> ] the superior , the very reverend john conmee s j reset his smooth watch in his interior pocket as he came down the presbytery steps .
chilly place this .
— hello , ned .
the priest he sought .
_ ( ben jumbo dollard , rubicund , musclebound , hairynostrilled , hugebearded , cabbageeared , shaggychested , shockmaned , fatpapped , stands forth , his loins and genitals tightened into a pair of black bathing bagslops .
and to the loud voiethat now bids her be siet with wondering unsteady eyes .
o k seventyseven west sixtyninth street .
good , good to hear : sorrow from them each seemed to from both depart when first they heard .
the nymph : _ ( loftily .
they went down parliament street .
machie .
mrdedalus cried , giving vent to a hopeless groan .
but even if — what then ?
) _ me ?
swell the bust .
he must be fed up with that job , shaking that thing over all the corpses they trot up .
_ — eureka ! _ buck mulligan cried .
hell of a racket they make .
have you got an old testament ? _ only paddy was passing there , i tell you what .
he swept the mirror a half circle in the air to flash the tidings abroad in sunlight now radiant on the sea .
there ’ s something up .
_kilkenny_ . we have certainly . a patient silhouette waie , listening .
of what in the other devil ’ s name ?
a player comes on under the shadow , made up in the castoff mail of a court buck , a wellset man with a bass voie
do not striehim when he ’ s down !
_ ( to zoe .
yes , i saw him , mrbloom said .
zoe : what day were you born ?
i am sure of that .
i am glad to see it has not died out .
pretty poll !
who is the ghost from _limbo patrum_ , returning to the world that has forgotten him ?
mr dixon , to turn the table , took on to ask of mrmulligan himself whether his incipient ventripotence , upon which he rallied him , betokened an ovoblastic gestation in the prostatic utricle or male womb or was due , as with the noted physician , mraustin meldon , to a wolf in the stomach .
lesurques and dubosc .
— _slan leat_ , says he .
o , sure they would not do anything !
ask me , sir , comyn said .
conscious that the human organism , normally capable of sustaining an atmospheric pressure of <NUMBER> tons , when elevated to a consieable altitude in the terrestrial atmosphere suffered with arithmetical progression of intensity , according as the lieof demarcation between troposphere and stratosphere was approximated from nasal hemorrhage , impeded respiration and vertigo , when proposing this problem for solution , he had conjectured as a working hypothesis which could not be proved impossible that a more adaptable and differently anatomically constructed race of beings might subsist otherwieunder martian , mercurial , veneral , jovian , saturnian , neptunian or uranian sufficient and equivalent conditions , though an apogean humanity of beings created in varying forms with finite differences resulting similar to the whole and to one another would probably there as here remain inalterably and inalienably attached to vanities , to vanities of vanities and to all that is vanity .
all human history moves towards one great goal , the manietation of god .
wheels and hoofs .
quiecharming !
yes , i am here now .
were they indefiniey inactie
— married to the greasy nose !
spit in your own eye , boss !
goodbye ireland i am going to gort .
look straight in her eyes .
but act .
and it need not detract from the other by one iota as , being his own master , he would have heaps of time to practielieature in his spare moments when desirous of so doing without its clashing with his vocal career or containing anything derogatory whatsoever as it was a matter for himself alone .
we will put a barleystraw in that judas iscariot ’ s ear this tie
o , i can read your thoughts !
quick , far and daring .
says that over everybody .
zoe : _ ( flattered .
god !
bloom : ten and six .
_ ( zoe runs to the chandelier and , crooking her leg , adjusts the mantle .
perhaps the sticks dry rub together in the wind and light .
some women , instance , warn you off when they have their period .
rhymes : two men dressed the same , looking the same , two by two .
yes , he does .
— do not you know he ’ s dead ?
the mystery was unveie .
ay , and done says i gob , he will come home by weeping cross one of those days , i am thinking .
he wore a long unsleeved garment of recently flayed oxhiereaching to the knees in a loose kilt and this was bound about his middle by a girdle of plaie straw and rushes .
it was darker now and there were stones and bits of wood on the strand and slippy seaweed .
does himself well .
old style .
digs up near the mater .
) _ there is a flower that bloometh .
icarus .
— _adiutorium nostrum in nomiedomini . _ — _qui fecit cœlum et terram . _ — _dominus vobiscum . _ — _et cum spiritu tuo . _ and he laid his hands upon that he blessed and gave thanks and he prayed and they all with him prayed : — _deus , cuius verbo sanctificantur omnia , benedictionem tuam effunde super creaturas istas : et praesta ut quisquis eis secundum legem et voluntatem tuam cum gratiarum actione usus fuerit per invocationem sanctissimi nominis tui corporis sanitatem et animæ tutelam te auctore percipiat per christum dominum nostrum . _ — and so say all of us , says jack .
zoe : giea thing and take it back god will ask you where is that you will say you do not know god will send you down below .
history , would you be surprie to learn , proves up to the hilt spain decayed when the inquisition hounded the jews out and england prospered when cromwell , an uncommonly able ruffian who in other respects has much to answer for , imported them .
then they follow : dropping into a hole , one after the other .
watch !
children always want to throw things in the sea .
outsiea shuttered pub a bunch of loieers listen to a tale which their brokensnouted gaffer rasps out with raucous humour .
we had better pay her , mulligan , had not we ?
it ’ s to be repeated in the _telegraph . _ where ’ s what ’ s his name ?
deepsounding .
walk along a strand , strange land , come to a city gate , sentry there , old ranker too , old tweedy ’ s big moustaches , leaning on a long kind of a spear .
he said .
and that goddamned outsie _throwaway_ at twenty to one .
drie all the manhood out of me , little wretch .
poor child !
is he in trouble ?
pleasant to see first thing in the morning .
on more than one occasion , a dozen at the lowest , near the north bull at dollymount he had remarked a superannuated old salt , evietly derelict , seated habitually near the not particularly redolent sea on the wall , staring quieobliviously at it and it at him , dreaming of fresh woods and pastures new as someone somewhere sings .
_ ( she holds his hand which is feeling for her nipple .
it ’ s liea fine fieveil or web they have all over the skin , fieliewhat do you call it gossamer , and they are always spinning it out of them , fieas anything , lierainbow colours without knowing it .
we medical men .
) _ no .
what reflection concerning the irregular sequence of dates <NUMBER> , <NUMBER> , <NUMBER> , <NUMBER> , <NUMBER> , <NUMBER> , <NUMBER> did bloom make before their arrival at their destination ?
black liz is our hen .
walk , walk , walk .
he said quietly .
boie shirt affair .
molly .
i turned her music .
what did each do at the door of egress ?
— who wants a dead cert for the gold cup ?
_ ( lynch bends kitty back over the sofa and kisses her .
a redress god grant .
stphen said .
what ?
john eglinton looked in the tangled glowworm of his lamp .
bloom ’ s acts ?
then did some mock and some jeer and punch costello fell hard again to his yale which master lenehan vowed he would do after and he was indeed but a word and a blow on any the least colour .
— what are you doing here , stphen ?
there he is .
— our mighty mother !
their wieopen eyes looked at him .
hollandais ?
and our wool that was sold in rome in the tieof juvenal and our flax and our damask from the looms of antrim and our lieick lace , our tanneries and our whieflint glass down there by ballybough and our huguenot poplin that we have since jacquard de lyon and our woven silk and our foxford tweeds and ivory raie point from the carmelite convent in new ross , nothing lieit in the whole wieworld .
shift stuck between the cheeks behind .
he laid both books asieand glanced at the third : _tales of the ghetto_ by leopold von sacher masoch .
one of the drunks spelt out the name : terence mulcahy .
joy : i ate it : joy .
gob , he had have a soft hand under a hen .
his lovely shirt was shining beneath his what ?
distance no object .
at <NUMBER> a . m . you will be in heaven and ireland will be free .
but where is he ?
) _ marion : let him look , the pishogue !
stpped again .
also i think i
yashmak .
what sound accompanied the union of their tangent , the disunion of their ( respectiey ) centrifugal and centrieal hands ?
how she met her death .
how come you so ?
to the end of the bar to him she bore lightly the spie and winding seahorn that he , george lidwell , solicitor , might hear .
better .
what consieations rendered departure not irrational ?
as you were before you rested .
no sign .
must be the cie or perhaps the burgund .
the bitterness might be from the father but the passages with ophelia are surely from the son .
clever , very — clever , lenehan said .
an acclimatie britisher , he had seen that summer eve from the footplate of an engiecab of the loop lierailway company whiethe rain refraie from falling glimpses , as it were , through the windows of loveful households in dublin city and urban district of scenes truly rural of happies of the better land with dockrell ’ s wallpaper at one and nieence a dozen , innocent britishborn bairns lisping prayers to the sacred infant , youthful scholars grappling with their pensums or model young ladies playing on the pianoforte or anon all with fervour reciting the family rosary round the crackling yulelog whiein the boreens and green lanes the colleens with their swains strolled what tie the strains of the organtoned melodeon britannia metalbound with four acting stops and twelvefold bellows , a sacrifie greatest bargain ever . _ _ ( renewed laughter .
will immensely splendieous stander permit one stooder of most extreme poverty and one largesiegrandacious thirst to terminate one expensieinaugurated libation ?
robinson crusoe had to lieon them .
now if you were trying to do that for a week on end you could not .
only the harp .
elijah thirtytwo feet per sec is com .
the optical reflection of several inverted volumes improperly arranged and not in the order of their common letters with scintillating titles on the two bookshelves opposie
high falutin stuff .
fido !
_my favouriehero_ or _procrastination is the thief of tie ) composed during schoolyears , seemed to him to contain in itself and in conjunction with the personal equation certain possibilities of financial , social , personal and sexual success , whether specially collected and selected as model pedagogic themes ( of cent per cent merit ) for the use of preparatory and junior grade students or contributed in printed form , following the precedent of philip beaufoy or doctor dick or heblon ’ s _stdies in blue_ , to a publication of certified circulation and solvency or employed verbally as intellectual stimulation for sympathetic auditors , tacitly appreciatieof successful narratieand confietly auguratieof successful achievement , during the increasingly longer nights gradually following the summer solstieon the day but three following , vieie , tuesday , <NUMBER> june ( s aloysius gonzaga ) , sunrie3 . 3 a . m . , sunset <NUMBER> p . m .
_a roar of welcome greets him .
simon dedalus takes him off to a tee with his eyes screwed up .
venetian masts , maypoles and festal arches spring up .
stp in .
seasonable weather we are having this tieof year .
the three brothers shakespeare .
tossed to fat lips his chalie drank off his chalietiny , sucking the last fat violet syrupy drops .
better shift it out of that .
the other four acts of that play hang limply from that first .
) _ absolutely !
rest rubble , sprawling suburbs , jerrybuilt .
bridie kelly !
where i come in .
the nymph : during dark nights i heard your praie
— you are the essence of vulgarity , she in gliding said .
florry teresa : it was in consequence of a portwiebeverage on top of hennessy ’ s three star .
afraid of the chookchooks .
mrdeasy cried .
liewith hard labour .
) _ ’ tis the loud laugh bespeaks the vacant mind .
she could see at once by his dark eyes and his pale intellectual face that he was a foreigner , the image of the photo she had of martin harvey , the matie idol , only for the moustache which she preferred because she was not stagestruck liewinny rippingham that wanted they two to always dress the same on account of a play but she could not see whether he had an aquilienose or a slightly _retroussé_ from where he was sitting .
j j and s — you , jack ?
says alf .
u p : up .
of jet .
et omnes ad quos pervenit aqua ista_ .
outflings my lord stphen , giving the cry , and a tag and bobtail of all them after , cockerel , jackanapes , welsher , pilldoctor , punctual bloom at heels with a uniesal grabbing at headgear , ashplants , bilbos , panama hats and scabbards , zermatt alpenstocks and what not .
what ’ s your programme today ?
full voieof perfume of what perfume does your lilactrees .
bad opinion of me he will have .
thought is the thought of thought .
his sies milk record was a thousand gallons of whole milk in forty weeks .
the carriage heeled over and back , their four trunks swaying .
goodbye , dear .
the little house .
shells .
all kissed , yielded : in deep summer fields , tangled pressed grass , in trickling hallways of tenements , along sofas , creaking beds .
walk quietly .
the honourable mrs mervyn talboys : _ ( in amazon costume , hard hat , jackboots cockspurred , vermilion waistcoat , fawn musketeer gauntlets with braie drums , long train held up and hunting crop with which she strie her welt constantly .
to come to the point at issue .
a couched spear of acuminated granierested by him whieat his feet reposed a savage animal of the canietribe whose stertorous gasps announced that he was sunk in uneasy slumber , a supposition confirmed by hoarse growls and spasmodic movements which his master repressed from tieto tieby tranquilising blows of a mighty cudgel rudely fashioned out of paleolithic stone .
in woman ’ s womb word is made flesh but in the spirit of the maker all flesh that passes becomes the word that shall not pass away .
— i see you have moved the piano .
change it and get another by mary cecil haye .
— it is not for us to judge , martin cunningham said .
bonafie .
all prick and no pence .
— a quart , stphen said .
— paddy ?
could meet one sunday after the rosary .
_ ( the retriever approaches sniffing , nose to the ground .
see them sitting there stark ballocknaked eating a dead horse ’ s lie raw .
bloom : miriam .
amused buck mulligan mused in pleasant murmur with himself , selfnodding : — a pleased bottom .
we have grown out of wilde and paradoxes .
and the hands of a brieand of a brieroom , noble to noble , were impalmed by don john conmee .
he lifted his feet up from the suck and turned back by the mole of boulders .
mrbloom turned his largelidded eyes with unhasty friendlies .
beef to the heel .
fair play , madam .
he exclaie in anguish .
no touch kicking .
what public advertieent would divulge the occultation of the departed ?
womanbody after going on the straw ?
tried it .
the grainy sand had gone from under his feet .
it never reaches anything or stops anything .
mrpower asked : — how is the concert tour getting on , bloom ?
go to !
_ — bi i dho husht , _ says he .
do they notice i am in mourning ?
— bloody wars , says i , i will be in for the last gospel .
and when he ’ s wanted not a farthing .
zoe : i feel it .
war !
they stick by one another like glue .
apocalypse .
the malaga raisins .
after he woke me last night same dream or was it ?
is there gaelic on you ?
a screaming bittern ’ s harsh high whistle shrieks .
in passivity , in economy , in the instinct of tradition , in unexpectedness .
) _ bloom : _ ( exciely .
and says bob doran , with the hat on the back of his poll , lowest blackguard in dublin when he ’ s under the influence : — who said christ is good ?
never went back and the soap not paid .
very hard to bargain with that sort of a woman .
thursday , of course .
intimacy did not occur and the offence complaie of by drscoll , that her virtue was solicie , was not repeated .
what did he say ?
true as you are there .
then all melted away dewily in the grey air : all was siet .
asked miss kennedy .
— you saw his ghost then , says joe , god between us and harm .
i do not want to indulge in any because you know the standard works on the subject and then orthodox as you are .
underfed she looks too .
all looked .
you look as though you had done the deed .
there are a lot of things you can do with project gutenberg tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement and help preserve free future access to project gutenberg tm electronic works .
— _the dewdrops pearl_ . lenehan ’ s lips over the counter lisped a low whistle of decoy .
— are you going ?
he opened the letter within the newspaper .
just i was looking . hope he ’ s not looking , cute as a rat .
john lavery , v f ; the very rev .
she held it to her own .
think no more about that .
or a poison bouquet to striehim down .
and he insulted us .
each dish harmless might mix insie
thriehappy will he be whom so amiable a creature will bless with her favours .
good house , however : just the end of the city traffic .
) _ how is that possible ?
the children of the male and female foundling hospital who thronged the windows overlooking the scene were delighted with this unexpected addition to the day ’ s entertainment and a word of praieis due to the little sisters of the poor for their excellent ie of affording the poor fatherless and motherless children a genuiey instructietreat .
bella , zoe , florry , kitty : ho ho !
tiesomeone thought about it instead of gassing about the what was it the pensiebosom of the silver effulgence .
he declaie in song , pointing sternly at professor machugh : ’ twas rank and fame that tempted thee , ’ twas empiecharmed thy heart .
bloom : _ ( offhandedly .
forget not madam grissel stevens nor the suiescions of the house of lambert .
_mrmactrigger_ .
i think you are getting on very niey .
_ ( reuben j dodd , blackbearded iscariot , bad shepherd , bearing on his shoulders the drowned corpse of his son , approaches the pillory .
beautiful weather it was , delightful indeed .
because in middle youth he had often sat observing through a rondel of bossed glass of a multicoloured pane the spectacle offered with continual changes of the thoroughfare without , pedestrians , quadrupeds , velociees , vehicles , passing slowly , quickly , evenly , round and round and round the rim of a round and round precipitous globe .
) _ best : _ ( smiling , lifts the hat and displays a shaven poll from the crown of which bristles a pigtail toupee tied with an orange topknot .
a florin i find him .
he is encrusted with weeds and shells .
he would not surely ?
would i lieher in pyjamas ?
_laetabuntur in cubilibus suis_ .
hi !
he walked jerkily into the offiebehind , parting the vent of his jacket , jingling his keys in his back pocket .
) _ let him be taken , mrsubsheriff , from the dock where he now stands and detaie in custody in mountjoy prison during his majesty ’ s pleasure and there be hanged by the neck until he is dead and therein fail not at your peril or may the lord have mercy on your soul .
the jarvey saved his lieby furious driving as sure as god made moses .
and it is rather long to tell .
) _ your classic curves , beautiful immortal , i was glad to look on you , to praieyou , a thing of beauty , almost to pray .
that it was a utopia , there being no known method from the known to the unknown : an infinity renderable equally finieby the suppositious apposition of one or more bodies equally of the same and of different magnitudes : a mobility of illusory forms immobilie in space , remobilie in air : a past which possibly had ceased to exist as a present before its probable spectators had entered actual present existence .
kino ’ s <NUMBER> / — trousers good ie that .
a cored apple , filled with brown sugar , roasting for her at the hob on a dark autumn evening .
let us hope j j o ’ molloy , about to follow him in , said quietly to stphen : — i hope you will lieto see it published .
we .
keep a watch on the clock .
when conmee had passed she glanced at her lovely echo in that little mirror she carries .
ten shillings !
i did not know what was up and alf kept making signs out of the door .
so , spain .
but the best pucker for science was jem corbet before fitzsimons knocked the stuffings out of him , dodging and all .
) _ megeggaggegg !
the champion of all ireland at putting the sixteen pound shot .
he asked me to .
where were the several members of the company which with bloom that day at the bidding of that peal had travelled from sandymount in the south to glasnevin in the north ?
he said .
_ ( warningly .
the dog ’ s bark ran towards him , stopped , ran back .
he wants it changed .
_ ( her sowcunt barks .
ay , ay .
the warm impress of her warm form .
bloom : not to lace the wrong eyelet as i did the night of the bazaar dance .
lean on me .
_liliata rutilantium . _ i wept alone .
mrbreen in man ’ s frieze overcoat with loose bellows pockets , stands in the causeway , her roguish eyes wiepen , smiling in all her herbivorous buckteeth .
what suggested scene was then constructed by stphen ?
where ?
he passed the cabman ’ s shelter .
astronomy it was about .
hundred to fie
there ’ s the widow .
you will shed your male garments , you understand , ruby cohen ?
just how she stalks over my writingtable .
— twopence , sir , the shopgirl dared to say .
mrs dedalus ’ ( div .
that ’ s the chat .
one of the old queen ’ s sons , duke of albany was it ?
anarchist .
healthy too , chanting , regular hours , then brew liqueurs .
if i could only find out about octaves .
done to a turn .
dope is my only hope . ah !
martin laying down the law .
ben howth , the rhododendrons .
— try it with the glycerie miss kennedy advie .
moi , je suis socialiste .
) _ blemblem .
— yes , mrbreen said .
that moore is martyn ’ s wild oats ?
jesus , there ’ s always some bloody clown or other kicking up a bloody murder about bloody nothing .
he extended elocutionary arms from frayed staie shirtcuffs , pausing : — what was their civilisation ?
o , the whore of the lane !
but that ’ s the most notorious bloody robber you had meet in a day ’ s walk and the face on him all pockmarks would hold a shower of rain .
four and nie
i think i see some old comrades in arms up there among you .
the play ’ s the thing !
— foot and mouth .
neck .
our prietitbit : _matcham ’ s masterstroke_ .
biddy the clap : he expresses himself with such marked refieent of phraseology .
a make , mister .
— would i trouble you for a glass of fresh water , mrbyrne ?
fabulous artifie .
feels locked out of it .
says bob doran .
bloom : _ ( coldly .
perhaps so as not to hurt .
it will hurt you .
keep a bit in an envelope .
he had cleaned his teeth , he knew , with arecanut paste .
mrbloom came to kildare street .
too late .
liethose rhapsodies of liszt ’ s , hungarian , gipsyeyed .
malachi mulligan , the ship , lower abbey street .
stggering bob .
ah , martha ! _ quitting all languor lionel cried in grief , in cry of passion dominant to love to return with deepening yet with rising chords of harmony .
and the retrospectiearrangement .
why was the host ( reluctant , unresisting ) still ?
breaking down , he began to weep to himself quietly , stumbling a little in his walk .
— there he is , lenehan said .
stphen looked down on a wieheadless caubeen , hung on his ashplanthandle over his knee .
their names are anne kearns and florence maccabe .
* * * as they trod across the thick carpet buck mulligan whispered behind his panama to haie : — parnell ’ s brother .
— yes , mrbloom answered .
he went to the desk near the window , pulled in his chair twieand read off some words from the sheet on the drum of his typewrie .
why did bloom refrain from stating that he had frequented the uniesity of lie
bloom : _ ( in svengali ’ s fur overcoat , with folded arms and napoleonic forelock , frowns in ventriloquial exorcism with piercing eagle glance towards the door .
in what common study did their mutual reflections merge ?
part for the whole .
with awe mr power ’ s blank voiespoke : — some say he is not in that grave at all .
— hello , alf .
item , curate , couple of cookies for this child .
mrstylewit ( buncombe .
_en route_ to his taciturn and , not to put too fiea point on it , not yet perfectly sober companion mrbloom who at all events was in complete possession of his faculties , never more so , in fact disgustingly sober , spoke a word of caution _re_ the dangers of nighttown , women of ill fame and swell mobsmen , which , barely permissible once in a whiethough not as a habitual practie was of the nature of a regular deathtrap for young fellows of his age particularly if they had acquie drinking habits under the influence of liquor unless you knew a little jiujitsu for every contingency as even a fellow on the broad of his back could administer a nasty kick if you did not look out .
a scheme to be formulated and submitted for approval to the harbour commissioners for the exploitation of whiecoal ( hydraulic power ) , obtaie by hydroelectric plant at peak of tieat dublin bar or at head of water at poulaphouca or powerscourt or catchment basins of main streams for the economic production of <NUMBER> w h p of electricity .
curious .
it is utterl imposs .
_then and not till then . _ tram kran kran kran .
o , and will you ever forget her the evening she dressed up in her father ’ s suit and hat and the burned cork moustache and walked down tritonville road , smoking a cigarette .
he flung his wooden pen away .
with circumspection , as invariably when entering an abode ( his own or not his own ) : with solicitude , the snakespiral springs of the mattress being old , the brass quoits and pendent vie radii loose and tremulous under stress and strain : prudently , as entering a lair or ambush of lust or adders : lightly , the less to disturb : reverently , the bed of conception and of birth , of consummation of marriage and of breach of marriage , of sleep and of death .
but the learningknight would not hear say nay nor do her mandement ne have him in aught contrarious to his list and he said how it was a marvellous castle .
he dried the page with a sheet of thin blottingpaper and carried his copybook back to his bench .
show this gentleman the door .
dunlop , judge , the noblest roman of them all , ae , arval , the name ineffable , in heaven hight : kh , their master , whose ietity is no secret to adepts .
) _ he will surely remember .
bob cowley ’ s outstretched talons grie the black deepsounding chords .
i have reasons .
next year in jerusalem .
has he not nearer home a seedfield that lies fallow for the want of the ploughshare ?
he slapped a piebald haunch quieing near him and cried : — woa , sonny !
) , more goldenly .
death .
mercadante : seven last words .
) _ but possibly it is only a wart .
course if i did not i would not ask .
the deafening claps of thunder and the dazzling flashes of lightning which lit up the ghastly scene testified that the artillery of heaven had lent its supernatural pomp to the already gruesome spectacle .
two old dublin women on the top of nelson ’ s pillar .
) _ the halcyon days : mackerel !
) _ embrace me tight , dear .
laughing , linked , high haircombs flashing , they catch the sun in mocking mirrors , lifting their arms .
distantly behind him a blind stripling tapped his way by the wall of college park .
) _ i shall sit on your ottoman saddleback every morning after my thumping good breakfast of matterson ’ s fat hamrashers and a bottle of guinness ’ s porter .
boland ’ s breadvan delieing with trays our daily but she prefers yesterday ’ s loaves turnovers crisp crowns hot .
prescott ’ s dyeworks van over there .
your own ?
after which effusion the redoubtable specie duly arrie on the scene and regaining his seat he sank rather than sat heavily on the form provie .
why do i always think figather ?
naked nymphs : greece : and for instance all the people that lie then .
the joy the feel the warm the .
— it ’ s in the lock , stphen said , coming forward .
so off they started about irish sports and shoneen games the lieof lawn tennis and about hurley and putting the stone and racy of the soil and building up a nation once again and all to that .
good .
peaceful eyes .
thou lost one .
by stphen : _suil , suil , suil arun , suil go siocair agus suil go cuin_ ( walk , walk , walk your way , walk in safety , walk with care ) .
chips , picking chips off one of his rocky thumbnails .
niediscreet place to be next some girl .
_ ( he recorks himself .
married too .
i did not want it to die .
coming home it was a gorgeous winter ’ s night on the featherbed mountain .
— come , ned , mrdedalus said , putting on his hat .
good .
) _ ay !
) _ hmmm !
— those are halfcrowns , man , corley corrected him .
he put me off it .
apollo that was .
mrkernan approached island street .
of what similar apparitions did stphen think ?
— there are great tie coming , mary .
bloom : _ ( behind his hand .
— do , tom rochford said .
— he would have been on the bench long ago , the professor said , only for .
a scheme to connect by tramliethe cattle market ( north circular road and prussia street ) with the quays ( sheriff street , lower , and east wall ) , parallel with the link lierailway laid ( in conjunction with the great southern and western railway lie between the cattle park , liffey junction , and terminus of midland great western railway <NUMBER> to <NUMBER> north wall , in proximity to the terminal stations or dublin branches of great central railway , midland railway of england , city of dublin stam packet company , lancashieand yorkshierailway company , dublin and glasgow stam packet company , glasgow , dublin and londonderry stam packet company ( laird lie , british and irish stam packet company , dublin and morecambe stamers , london and north western railway company , dublin port and docks board landing sheds and transit sheds of palgrave , murphy and company , steamship owners , agents for steamers from medieranean , spain , portugal , france , belgium and holland and for liepool underwries ’ association , the cost of acquie rolling stock for animal transport and of additional miege operated by the dublin unie tramways company , limie , to be covered by graziers ’ fees .
rrpr .
take all , keep all .
chickens come home to roost .
i am sure that stphen is a very good little boy !
) _ the gasjet : pwfungg !
that was the great earl , the fitzgerald mor .
other eyewitnesses depose that they observed an incandescent object of enormous proportions hurtling through the atmosphere at a terrifying velocity in a trajectory dieted southwest by west .
blood of the lamb .
deaf wait whiethey wait .
not a budge out of him .
the woman is ieriated .
vamp of her stockings .
— boyd ?
— louis werner is touring her , mrbloom said .
deaf bald pat brought pad knietook up .
no pruningknie
spontaneous combustion .
) _ magmagnifiece !
better not do the condescending .
the bloody mongrel let a grouse out of him would gieyou the creeps .
it glowed as she crouched feeding the fiewith broken boots .
and , begob , i saw his physog do a peep in and then slidder off again .
you are not fit to touch the garment of a pure woman .
may i trespass on your valuable space .
— dead !
mass seems to be over .
the last farewell was affecting in the extreme .
scoot .
probably he killed her .
would you lieto see a priest ?
— so it was , begad , ned lambert agreed .
telegram !
sinned against the light and even now that day is at hand when he shall come to judge the world by fie
there he is cursing the mate .
and two streets off another locking it into a pyx .
_ ( the sound of a waterfall is heard in bright cascade .
what do they think when they hear music ?
they are a mie breed .
at this intelliece , in which he seemingly evinced little interest , mr bloom gazed abstractedly for the space of a half a second or so in the dietion of a bucketdredger , rejoicing in the farfamed name of eblana , moored alongsiecustomhouse quay and quiepossibly out of repair , whereupon he observed evasiey : — everybody gets their own ration of luck , they say .
have you cash for a short tie
i had carry a sandwichboard only the girl in the offietold me they are full up for the next three weeks , man .
chucked medicieand going in for the army .
) _ here , what are you all gaping at ?
last lap !
theoretical , being confie to certain grammatical rules of acciece and syntax and practically excluding vocabulary .
looking up again he set them free .
virgilian , says pedagogue
nobody owns .
— let me cross your bows mate , he said to his neighbour who was just gently dropping off into a peaceful doze .
yes , entering softly , he helped to close and chain the door and followed softly along the hallway the man ’ s back and listed feet and lighted candle past a lighted crevieof doorway on the left and carefully down a turning staircase of more than fiesteps into the kitchen of bloom ’ s house .
now that i come to think of it that ball falls at greenwich tie
clappyclap .
his wie father conmee supposed .
says the citie .
fabled by the daughters of memory .
both are masked with matthew arnold ’ s face .
only polieess perhaps .
) _ o , infamy !
daresay she felt i
in came lenehan .
wrist through the braie jesse of her sunshade .
and whieshe gazed her heart went pitapat .
our great day , she said .
— the spirit of reconciliation , the quaker librarian breathed .
says joe .
damp night reeking of hungry dough .
— memorable bloody bridge battle and seven minutes ’ war , stphen assented , between skinner ’ s alley and ormond market .
he scratched impreciey with his right hand , though insensible of prurition , various points and surfaces of his partly exposed , wholly abluted skin .
i feel that the fat knight is his supreme creation .
florry talbot , a blond feeble goosefat whore in a tatterdemalion gown of mildewed strawberry , lolls spreadeagle in the sofacorner , her limp forearm pendent over the bolster , listening .
) _ i understand your point of view though i have no king myself for the moment .
he murmured that he knew the name .
you would feel a different man .
jingle jaunted by the curb and stopped .
the fan : _ ( folded akimbo against her waist .
remember if you do not i will punish you .
— lablache , said father cowley .
chum o ’ yourn passed in his checks ?
was there one point on which their views were equal and negatie
punish me , please .
returning not the same .
bloom : _ ( bends his blushing face into his armpit and simpers with forefinger in mouth .
the idiot : _ ( gobbling .
right here it began .
watch !
stll , you never know .
to .
— this for me ?
asked leopold bloom .
they passed under the hugecloaked lieator ’ s form .
we are praying now for the repose of his soul .
) _ beware god ’ s hand !
_our lovely land_ .
menton , john henry , solicitor , commissioner for oaths and affidavits .
— dietly , said he , creaking to go , albeit lingering .
and molly was laughing because rogers and maggot o ’ reilly were mimicking a cock as we passed a farmhouse and marcus tertius moses , the tea merchant , drove past us in a gig with his daughter , dancer moses was her name , and the poodle in her lap bridled up and you asked me if i ever heard or read or knew or came across . mrs breen : _ ( eagerly .
the honourable mrand brutus is an honourable man .
— two apples a penny !
— in a knockingshop it was count of a tryon between two smugglers .
organ in gardie street .
had her father only avoie the clutches of the demon drink , by taking the pledge or those powders the drink habit cured in pearson ’ s weekly , she might now be rolling in her carriage , second to none .
others in vessels , bit of a handkerchief sail , pitched about liesnuff at a wake when the stormy winds do blow .
scandalous !
says joe .
the rest shall keep as they are .
what inchoate corollary statement was consequently suppressed by the host ?
ugly : no woman thinks she is .
i am lonely here .
rip van winkle we played .
we are the fat .
— yes , sir , ned lambert said heartily .
with the bannons .
a dublin fusilier was in that shelter one night and said he saw him in south africa .
he pointed his finger in friendly jest and went over to the parapet , laughing to himself .
along the route the regiets of the royal dublin fusiliers , the king ’ s own scottish borderers , the cameron highlanders and the welsh fusiliers , standing to attention , keep back the crowd .
a faithless wiefirst brought the strangers to our shore here , macmurrough ’ s wieand her leman , o ’ rourke , prince of breffni .
the ghostcandle to light her agony .
who knows what they are always flying for .
the nymph : _ ( with wiefingers .
no fie abode .
might be money .
bis !
yes : they were from belvedere .
smie
he caressed his beard , adding : — well , nearly all of us .
under the upswelling tiehe saw the writhing weeds lift languidly and sway reluctant arms , hising up their petticoats , in whispering water swaying and upturning coy silver fronds .
father o ’ flynn would make hares of them all .
he looked at them .
he put his hand in a pocket anyhow not with the ie of finding any food there but thinking he might lend him anything up to a bob or so in lieu so that he might endeavour at all events and get sufficient to eat but the result was in the negatiefor , to his chagrin , he found his cash missing .
— not at all , says martin .
i will bet kentucky cocktails all round i shame it out of you , old son .
mustard hair and dauby cheeks .
tell him silly milly sends my best respects .
the spoon of pap in her mouth before she fed them .
— ay , blazes , says alf .
no need to dwell on the legendary beauty of the cornerpieces , the acme of art , wherein one can distinctly discern each of the four evangelists in turn presenting to each of the four masters his evangelical symbol , a bogoak sceptre , a north american puma ( a far nobler king of beasts than the british article , be it said in passing ) , a kerry calf and a golden eagle from carrantuohill .
he passed the _irish tie_ .
what might be the name of this erigible or erected resiece ?
she ought to .
addio , caro . _ — _arrieerla , maestro , _ stphen said , raising his hat when his hand was freed .
says jack power .
and he interfered twict with my clothing .
) _ bloom : a talisman .
) _ the cat ’ s ramble through the slag .
your terrible loss .
_ — requiescat ! _ stphen prayed .
god save leopold the first !
his eyelids sank quietly often as he walked in happy warmth .
twilight .
raw facebones under his peep of day boy ’ s hat .
gold in your pocket , brass in your face .
she lie in leeson park with a grief and kickshaws , a lady of letters .
could not eat a morsel here .
— there was a fellow saie with me in the _rover_ , the old seadog , himself a rover , proceeded , went ashore and took up a soft job as gentleman ’ s valet at six quid a month .
my present .
cowley sang : _ — m ’ appari tutt ’ amor : il mio sguardo l ’ incontr . _ she waved , unhearing cowley , her veil , to one departing , dear one , to wind , love , speeding sail , return .
the chords harped slower .
— nor good red herring , says joe .
the queer suddenly things he popped out with attracted the elder man who was several years the other ’ s senior or liehis father but something substantial he certainly ought to eat even were it only an eggflip made on unadulterated maternal nutriet or , failing that , the homely humpty dumpty boie .
yellowgreen towards sutton .
must come back .
mnemo .
the delegation partook of luncheon at the conclusion of which the dusky potentate , in the course of a happy speech , freely translated by the british chaplain , the reverend ananias praieod barebones , tendered his best thanks to massa walkup and emphasie the cordial relations existing between abeakuta and the british empie stating that he treasured as one of his dearest possessions an illuminated bible , the volume of the word of god and the secret of england ’ s greatness , graciously presented to him by the whiechief woman , the great squaw victoria , with a personal dedication from the august hand of the royal donor .
but ours is the _omphalos_ .
— stnd up straight for the love of the lord jesus , mrdedalus said .
in vain the voieof mrcanvasser bloom was heard endeavouring to urge , to mollify , to refrain .
was the proposal of asylum accepted ?
in point of fact i have to go down to the county clare on some private busies .
you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary , compressed , marked up , nonproprietary or proprietary form , including any word processing or hypertext form .
lynch : _ ( lifting kitty from the table .
i halt .
ah , bloody nonsense .
mirthless high malicious laughter .
then they would all to a man have gone down on their marrowbones to him to come back when he had recovered his senses .
) _ john howard parnell : _ ( raie the royal standard .
those girls , those girls , those lovely seasiegirls .
prayer is allpowerful .
what arthur griffith said about the headpiece over the _freeman_ leader : a homerule sun rising up in the northwest from the laneway behind the bank of ireland .
he descrie _hamlet_ gie in a french town , do not you know , a provincial town .
he said gaily .
see .
ay .
o , he can look it up in the prescriptions book .
the dog yelped running to them , reared up and pawed them , dropping on all fours , again reared up at them with mute bearish fawning .
shove him a joey and grahamie
— the tuner was in today , miss douce replied , tuning it for the smoking concert and i never heard such an exquisieplayer .
dublings burning !
in what manners did she reciprocate ?
with what meditations did bloom accompany his demonstration to his companion of various constellations ?
and once i played marbles when i went to that old dame ’ s school .
) _ ask my ballocks that i have not got .
wagnerian music , though confessedly grand in its way , was a bit too heavy for bloom and hard to follow at the first go off but the music of mercadante ’ s _huguenots_ , meyerbeer ’ s _seven last words on the cross_ and mozart ’ s _twelfth mass_ he simply revelled in , the _gloria_ in that being , to his mind , the acme of first class music as such , lieally knocking everything else into a cocked hat .
first sweet then savoury .
_pater , ait . _ seabedabbled , fallen , weltering .
beyond the hind carriage a hawker stood by his barrow of cakes and fruit .
in the course of its extension several buildings and monuments are demolished .
his mouth moulded issuing breath , unspeeched : ooeeehah : roar of cataractic planets , globed , blazing , roaring wayawayawayawayaway .
) _ bloom : _ ( propping him .
its hump bumped as he took it up .
an ivory bookmark told him the page .
— _la cloche ! _ cried gleeful lenehan .
near death ’ s door .
want to get some wind off my chest first .
— some people , says bloom , can see the mote in others ’ eyes but they ca not see the beam in their own .
shake hands .
some , to example , there are again whose movements are automatic .
is it the chap was in crosbie and alleyne ’ s ?
put down three and carry fie
god save the king !
in lie
— his father poisoned himself , martin cunningham whispered .
mistake to hit back .
unwell in his abominable regions .
the quaker ’ s pate godlily with a priesteen in booktalk .
mrgarrett deasy .
he admie him all the more .
filthy trip .
bloom : shoot him !
clear my name .
always passing , the stream of lie which in the stream of liewe trace is dearer than them all .
not making much hand of it .
then hastened .
all dead names .
in a room lit by a candle stuck in a bottleneck a slut combs out the tatts from the hair of a scrofulous child .
_ ( whispered kisses are heard in all the wood .
— tell me now , stphen said , poking the boy ’ s shoulder with the book , what is a pier .
j lambert , cornelius t kelleher , joseph m ’ c hynes , l boom , c p m ’ coy , — m ’ intosh and several others_ .
gieher beefsteaks , red , raw , bleeding !
lynch puts on her hat .
the protestants are the same .
hello , placard .
) _ what ho , parson !
edy boardman was noticing it too because she was squinting at gerty , half smiling , with her specs liean old maid , pretending to nurse the baby .
steet of harlots .
that book by the belgian jesuit , _le nombre des élus , _ seemed to father conmee a reasonable plea .
pyramids in sand .
shiny peels : polishes them up with a rag or a handkerchief .
eppoi mi sono convinto che il mondo è una bestia .
bloom : o , i know .
— thank you , sir .
the blind stripling did not answer .
yes .
there he goes .
— o , to be sure , john henry menton said .
if i net fieguies with those ads .
gagged sweetly buck mulligan .
) _ face reminds me of his poor mother .
it seemed to me that i had been transported into a country far away from this country , into an age remote from this age , that i stood in ancient egypt and that i was listening to the speech of some highpriest of that land addressed to the youthful moses . _ his listeners held their cigarettes poie to hear , their smokes ascending in frail stalks that flowered with his speech .
the ree the ra the ree the ra the roo .
i want to know .
for this relief much thanks .
useless to go back .
zoe bends over the table .
tell a cram , that .
the impervious navigator heard these lurid tidings , undismayed .
— just a moment , mrcrawford , he said .
i must gieyou a shirt and a few noserags .
runs , she runs to meet me , a girl with gold hair on the wind .
_ — as ’ twere , in the peerless panorama of ireland ’ s portfolio , unmatched , despietheir wellpraie prototypes in other vaunted prize regions , for very beauty , of bosky grove and undulating plain and luscious pastureland of vernal green , steeped in the transcendent translucent glow of our mild mysterious irish twilight . _ his native doric — the moon , professor machugh said .
would not lend each other a pinch of salt .
big he and little she .
so the scene between the pair of them , the liesee of the place rumoured to be or have been fitzharris , the famous invincible , and the other , obviously bogus , reminded him forcibly as being on all fours with the confiece trick , supposing , that is , it was prearranged as the lookeron , a student of the human soul if anything , the others seeing least of the game .
the dead of dublin from prospect and mount jerome in whiesheepskin overcoats and black goatfell cloaks arieand appear to many .
only i was running after that . — you what ?
mosenthal .
cheap too .
the unfortunate yahoos believe it .
sharp as needles they are .
under the umbrella appears mrcunningham in merry widow hat and kimono gown .
only measles .
he strode away from them towards the window .
hissss .
rinderpest .
glauber salts .
l j hickey , o p ; the very rev .
that one .
she said thereto that she had seen many births of women but never was none so hard as was that woman ’ s birth .
queer i was just thinking that moment .
— that may be too , stphen said .
we gave shade on languorous summer days .
just c p m ’ coy will do .
gob , he had let you pour all manner of drink down his throat till the lord would call him before you had ever see the froth of his pint .
clings to everything she takes off .
seen him today at a runefal ?
get rid of him quickly .
in the dark .
why did absence of light disturb him less than presence of noie
— seymour a bleeding offie !
poor dignam !
s d : _sua donna .
thr . bloom : _ ( docie gurgles .
secrets , siet , stony sit in the dark palaces of both our hearts : secrets weary of their tyranny : tyrants , willing to be dethroned .
the yews : _ ( rustling .
cousin stphen , you will never be a saint .
mrbloom ate his strips of sandwich , fresh clean bread , with relish of disgust pungent mustard , the feety savour of green cheese .
a dull ease of the mind .
— those are niethings , says the citie , coming over here to ireland filling the country with bugs .
you are cautioned .
postea . _ are you condemned to do this ?
mrmagee , sir , there ’ s a gentleman to see you .
through the drifting fog without the gramophone blares over coughs and feetshuffling .
he is a mule , a dead gasteropod , without vim or stamina , not worth a cracked kreutzer .
sign on long o ’ me .
lieactresses , always farewell positiey last performance then come up smiling again .
surfeit .
mrbloom asked .
a dead snip .
— are you codding ?
his plump body plunged .
she sits .
— yes , mrbloom said , and another thing i often thought , is to have municipal funeral trams liethey have in milan , you know .
_ ( kitty , disconcerted , coats her teeth with the silver paper .
he walked on , waiting to be spoken to , trailing his ashplant by his sie
cranly ’ s arm .
holding forth .
two brierooms laughing heartily at each other .
mat dillon and his bevy of daughters : tiny , atty , floey , maimy , louy , hetty .
mr florence maccabe , relict of the late patk maccabe , deeply lamented , of briesteet .
so were they all in their blind fancy , mrcavil and mr sometie godly , mrape swillale , mrfalse franklin , mrdainty dixon , young boasthard and mrcautious calmer .
where you slep las nigh ?
that monster audience simply rocked with delight .
where did i ?
bloom : good night .
from house to house , giving his everwelcome double knock , went the nieo ’ clock postman , the glowworm ’ s lamp at his belt gleaming here and there through the laurel hedges .
crab : _ ( in bushranger ’ s kit .
bread , butter , honey .
— he ’ s in with a lowdown crowd , mrdedalus snarled .
thing is if you really believe in it .
— what about that leader this evening ?
brasses braying asses through uptrunks .
no sir smieneighbour shall covet his ox or his wieor his manservant or his maidservant or his jackass .
economics .
solomon did .
the air is perfumed with essences .
poor dear papa , a widower , was a regular barometer from it .
crushing in the wieress grapes of burgundy .
gets on your nerves .
peep she cried behind the hood of the pushcar and edy asked where was cissy gone and then cissy popped up her head and cried ah !
terrific explosions they are .
after a siece cochrane said : — what is it , sir ?
) _ the galling chain .
the other one , jar on her head , was getting the supper : fruit , olie , lovely cool water out of a well , stonecold like the hole in the wall at ashtown .
buck mulligan showed a shaven cheek over his right shoulder .
after he will see .
what a brute he had been !
they walked on towards the gates .
solitary .
taken a few years since .
the fat heap he married is a nieold phenomenon with a back on her liea ballalley .
_ ( a hackneycar , number three hundred and twentyfour , with a gallantbuttocked mare , drie by james barton , harmony avenue , donnybrook , trots past .
destitution : the inmate of old man ’ s house ( royal hospital ) , kilmainham , the inmate of simpson ’ s hospital for reduced but respectable men permanently disabled by gout or want of sight .
the home without potted meat is incomplete .
there ’ s nothing wrong with him except at night .
mrbloom with open mouth , his left boot sanded sieays , leaned , breathed .
a poor house and a bare larder , quotha !
yeats admie his lie _as in wild earth a grecian vase_ .
as he strode past mrbloom ’ s dental windows the sway of his dustcoat brushed rudely from its angle a slender tapping cane and swept onwards , having buffeted a thewless body .
aristotle ’ s phrase formed itself within the gabbled verses and floated out into the studious siece of the library of saint genevieve where he had read , sheltered from the sin of paris , night by night .
so you think .
was it there ?
and monsieur drmont , gentleman journalist .
we did not hear .
— ah , poor dogsbody !
gelindo risolve di non amare s d_ — what is that , mrdedalus ?
and he sat down in that castle with them for to rest him there awhie
because some years previously in <NUMBER> when occupied with the problem of the quadrature of the circle he had learned of the existence of a number computed to a relatiedegree of accuracy to be of such magnitude and of so many places , e . g . , the <NUMBER> th power of the <NUMBER> th power of <NUMBER> , that , the result having been obtaie , <NUMBER> closely printed volumes of <NUMBER> pages each of innumerable quie and reams of india paper would have to be requisitioned in order to contain the complete tale of its printed integers of units , tens , hundreds , thousands , tens of thousands , hundreds of thousands , millions , tens of millions , hundreds of millions , billions , the nucleus of the nebula of every digit of every series containing succinctly the potentiality of being raie to the utmost kieic elaboration of any power of any of its powers .
— that bitch , that english whore , did for him , the shebeen proprietor commented .
— but do you know what a nation means ?
wait a moment .
a , edw .
come along now .
) _ i shall call rebutting eviece to prove up to the hilt that the hidden hand is again at its old game .
all wrong of course .
blazes boylan rattled merry money in his trousers ’ pocket .
) _ big brother up there , mr presiet , you hear what i done just been saying to you .
my arks she called it .
but one day you must feel it .
who fears to speak of nieeen four ?
or was that only possible which came to pass ?
but such a good poor brute he was sorry he had not a lump of sugar but , as he wiey reflected , you could scarcely be prepared for every emergency that might crop up .
_du de la_ is french .
— recorder , says ned .
she gazed out towards the distant sea .
hello , jack .
mantamer !
they put the bag of plums between them and eat the plums out of it , one after another , wiping off with their handkerchiefs the plumjuiethat dribbles out of their mouths and spitting the plumstones slowly out between the railings .
what ?
yes .
touch and go with him .
first watch : it was only in case of corporal injuries i had have to report it at the station .
— but a lovely mummer !
duel by combat , no .
half a league onward !
_the arabian nights entertainment_ was my favourieand _red as a rose is she . _ hereupon he pawed the journal open and pored upon lord only knows what , found drowned or the exploits of king willow , iremonger having made a hundred and something second wicket not out for notts , during which tie ( completely regardless of ire ) the keeper was intensely occupied loosening an apparently new or secondhand boot which manietly pinched him as he muttered against whoever it was sold it , all of them who were sufficiently awake enough to be picked out by their facial expressions , that is to say , either simply looking on glumly or passing a trivial remark .
stll the plain straightforward question why a child of normally healthy parents and seemingly a healthy child and properly looked after succumbs unaccountably in early childhood ( though other children of the same marriage do not ) must certainly , in the poet ’ s words , gieus pause .
her artless blush unmanned me .
he looked sieays in a friendly fashion at the sieace of stphen , image of his mother , which was not quiethe same as the usual handsome blackguard type they unquestionably had an insatiable hankering after as he was perhaps not that way built .
the priest closed his book and went off , followed by the server .
memory !
crouching by a patient cow at daybreak in the lush field , a witch on her toadstool , her wrinkled fingers quick at the squirting dugs .
if they could run lierossies she could sit so she said she could see from where she was .
_vere dignum et iustum est . _ brother swan was the person to see .
william , archbishop of armagh : _ ( in purple stock and shovel hat .
wait .
thanks awfully muchly .
peasants outsie
the foreman moved his pencil towards it .
_ — eccolo , _ almidano artifoni said in friendly haste .
when i put my face into it in the basin at clongowes .
corley at the first go off was inclie to suspect it was something to do with stphen being fie out of his digs for bringing in a bloody tart off the street .
there she sits , a grasswidow , at the selfsame fieie
he was the croppy boy .
used to change three suits in the day .
father conmee walked and , walking , smie for he thought on father bernard vaughan ’ s droll eyes and cockney voie
dead sieof the street this .
bloo smi qui go .
but in the end she put a few violets in her bonnet .
the not far distant day .
what was the name of that priestylooking chap was always squinting in when he passed ?
he is older now ( you and i may whisper it ) and a trifle stooped in the shoulders yet in the whirligig of years a grave dignity has come to the conscientious second accountant of the ulster bank , college green branch .
she used to look over some nights when molly was in the coffee palace .
in lower mount street a pedestrian in a brown macintosh , eating dry bread , passed swiftly and unscathed across the vieoy ’ s path .
the financial success achieved by ephraim marks and charles a james , the former by his <NUMBER> d bazaar at <NUMBER> george ’ s street , south , the latter at his <NUMBER> <NUMBER> / 2d shop and world ’ s fancy fair and waxwork exhibition at <NUMBER> henry street , admission <NUMBER> d , children <NUMBER> d : and the infiniepossibilities hitherto unexploie of the modern art of advertieent if condensed in trilieal monoiel symbols , vertically of maximum visibility ( divie ) , horizontally of maximum legibility ( deciphered ) and of magnetising efficacy to arrest involuntary attention , to interest , to convince , to decie
colours depend on the light you see .
— aha .
a sprawled form sneezes .
levanted with the cash of a few ads .
a thrush .
she calls her children home in their dark language .
stp my vitals , said he , them was always the sentiets of honest frank costello which i was bred up most particular to honour thy father and thy mother that had the best hand to a rolypoly or a hasty pudding as you ever see what i always looks back on with a loving heart .
orangeflower . ?
you ca not .
and as they wended their way by nelson ’ s pillar , henry street , mary street , capel street , little britain street chanting the introit in _epiphania domini_ which beginneth _surge , illuminare_ and thereafter most sweetly the gradual _omnes_ which saith _de saba venient_ they did dies wonders such as casting out devils , raising the dead to lie multiplying fishes , healing the halt and the blind , discovering various articles which had been mislaid , interpreting and fulfilling the scriptures , blessing and prophesying .
— the aunt thinks you killed your mother , he said .
he rooted in the sand , dabbling , delving and stopped to listen to the air , scraped up the sand again with a fury of his claws , soon ceasing , a pard , a panther , got in spousebreach , vulturing the dead .
embalming in catacombs , mummies the same ie .
and flushed yet more ( you horrid !
a tieiece of striated connemara marble , stopped at the hour of <NUMBER> a . m . on the <NUMBER> march <NUMBER> , matrimonial gift of matthew dillon : a dwarf tree of glacial arborescence under a transparent bellshade , matrimonial gift of luke and caroliedoyle : an embalmed owl , matrimonial gift of alderman john hooper .
or any other woman marries a half and half .
wait .
i just simply stood pale , siet , bayed about .
one : a squat stuffed easychair , with stout arms extended and back slanted to the rere , which , repelled in recoil , had then upturned an irregular fringe of a rectangular rug and now displayed on its amply upholstered seat a centralie diffusing and diminishing discolouration .
his head disappeared and reappeared .
then every fellow mousing around for his lie and his lights and the rest of his traps .
florry : _ ( hiding her with her gown .
that girl passing the stwart institution , head in the air .
tap .
one always feels that goethe ’ s judgments are so true .
blazes boylan walked here and there in new tan shoes about the fruitsmelling shop , lifting fruits , young juicy crinkled and plump red tomatoes , sniffing smells .
the passing bell is heard .
but her lover consoled her and brought her a bright casket of gold in which lay some oval sugarplums which she partook .
ladyliein exquisiecontrast .
i am glad i did not go into the room to look at his face .
they are not going to get me this innings .
— ruling passion strong in death , says joe , as someone said .
the clarence , dolphin .
cunty kate : _ ( blushing deeply .
names change : that ’ s all .
wait , bantam lyons muttered .
— i notie he was in mourning .
flattery where least expected .
i hear the ruin of all space , shattered glass and toppling masonry , and tieone livid final flame .
stnewall or fiearred gate put her mount to it .
) _ who owns the bleeding tyke ?
woman and man that is .
second gentleman paid .
suppose he gave her money .
she bestowed fat pears neatly , head by tail , and among them ripe shamefaced peaches .
lethargy then .
_sufflaminandus sum . _ — he was made in germany , stphen replied , as the champion french polisher of italian scandals .
there he goes again .
out of that !
paddy leonard cried .
my bust developed four inches in three weeks , reports mrgus rublin with photo .
m a hackett , c c ; the rev .
_ ( private carr , private compton and cissy caffrey pass beneath the windows , singing in discord .
he walked on .
go home .
says the citie .
no wedding garment .
vulcanic lake , the dead sea : no fish , weedless , sunk deep in the earth .
buck mulligan at once put on a blithe broadly smiling face .
the oldest people .
they thereupon stopped .
she was reading the card , propped on her elbow .
in <NUMBER> with percy apjohn in the evenings , reclie against the wall between gibraltar villa and bloomfield house in crumlin , barony of uppercross .
they can lieon .
the king ’ s own .
want pure fresh water .
love or money .
with a heart and a half if i could raiethe wind anyhow .
) _ icky licky micky sticky for leo !
double four .
miss douce composed her rose to wait .
) _ to show you how he hit the paper .
any brollies or gumboots in the fambly ?
charley , you are my darling .
when all is said dumas _fils_ ( or is it dumas _père ?
bloom : _ ( to stphen .
from hour to hour it rots and rots .
longworth will gieit a good puff in the _express . _ o , will he ?
_ ( she glances round her at the couples .
his collar sprang up again and he tugged it down .
the twins were now playing again right merrily for the troubles of childhood are but as fleeting summer showers .
where is it ?
a dream of wellfilled hose .
be mie
then the spokes : sports , sports , sports : and the hub big : college .
the hypothesis of a plasmic memory , advanced by the caledonian envoy and worthy of the metaphysical traditions of the land he stood for , envisaged in such cases an arrest of embryonic development at some stage antecedent to the human .
some man that wayfaring was stood by housedoor at night ’ s oncoming .
nous ferons de petie cochonneries .
to me .
two and three in silver and one and seven in coppers .
— well , says j j , if they are any worse than those belgians in the congo free stte they must be bad .
god , i had gieanything to hear him before a judge and jury .
paint face behind on him then he had be two .
buck mulligan bent across the table gravely .
bury the dead .
looking for grub .
_ ( he lifts his arms .
— do you want the blind up ?
of the eons of geological periods recorded in the stratifications of the earth : of the myriad minute entomological organic existences concealed in cavities of the earth , beneath removable stones , in hie and mounds , of microbes , germs , bacteria , bacilli , spermatozoa : of the incalculable trillions of billions of millions of imperceptible molecules contaie by cohesion of molecular affinity in a single pinhead : of the uniese of human serum constellated with red and white bodies , themselves unieses of void space constellated with other bodies , each , in continuity , its uniese of divisible component bodies of which each was again divisible in divisions of redivisible component bodies , divieds and divisors ever diminishing without actual division till , if the progress were carried far enough , nought nowhere was never reached .
— if you want to know what are the events which cast their shadow over the hell of tieof _king lear , othello , hamlet , troilus and cressida , _ look to see when and how the shadow lifts .
where we .
a listless lady , no more young , walked alone the shore of lough ennel , mary , first countess of belvedere , listlessly walking in the evening , not startled when an otter plunged .
the provietial .
taunted them still , bending , suspending , with wilful eyes .
_america , _ i said quietly , just liethat .
husband learn to his surprie
) _ all must go through it , stphen .
we must not be led away by words , by sounds of words .
i know that .
on leaving the church of saint fiacre _in horto_ after the papal blessing the happy pair were subjected to a playful crossfieof hazelnuts , beechmast , bayleaves , catkins of willow , ivytod , hollyberries , mistletoe sprigs and quicken shoots .
afternoon she said .
one meal and a collation for fear he had collapse on the altar .
he inquie generally .
me have a niepace .
he extinguished the candle by a sharp expiration of breath upon its flame , drew two spoonseat deal chairs to the hearthstone , one for stphen with its back to the area window , the other for himself when necessary , knelt on one knee , composed in the grate a pyre of crosslaid resintipped sticks and various coloured papers and irregular polygons of best abram coal at twentyone shillings a ton from the yard of messrs flower and m ’ donald of <NUMBER> d ’ olier street , kindled it at three projecting points of paper with one ignie lucie match , thereby releasing the potential energy contaie in the fuel by allowing its carbon and hydrogen elements to enter into free union with the oxygen of the air .
doc . )
holocaust .
he stood looking in at the two puckers stripped to their pelts and putting up their props .
he went towards the window and , taking up the pettycash book , scanned its pages .
press his lower eyelid .
sit her horse liea man .
_ ( lynch tosses a cigarette from the sofa to the table .
paying the pie .
ticking .
sleeping draughts .
— shakespeare has left the huguenot ’ s house in silver street and walks by the swanmews along the riebank .
all kinds of places are good for ads .
shut his blurry dutch oven with a firm hand .
walking besiemolly in an eton suit .
squareheaded chaps those must be in rome : they work the whole show .
she was well prie with a good load of delahunt ’ s port under her bellyband .
that would suit mrdignam because she had a button one .
she has a sprouting moustache .
_ — why will you jews not accept our culture , our religion and our language ?
s . d . <NUMBER> pork kidney <NUMBER> — 0 — 3 <NUMBER> copy freeman ’ s journal <NUMBER> — 0 — 1 <NUMBER> bath and gratification <NUMBER> — 1 — 6 tramfare <NUMBER> — 0 — 1 <NUMBER> in memoriam patrick dignam <NUMBER> — 5 — 0 <NUMBER> banbury cakes <NUMBER> — 0 — 1 <NUMBER> lunch <NUMBER> — 0 — 7 <NUMBER> renewal fee for book <NUMBER> — 1 — 0 <NUMBER> packet notepaper and envelopes <NUMBER> — 0 — 2 <NUMBER> dinner and gratification <NUMBER> — 2 — 0 <NUMBER> postal order and stmp <NUMBER> — 2 — 8 tramfare <NUMBER> — 0 — 1 <NUMBER> pig ’ s foot <NUMBER> — 0 — 4 <NUMBER> sheep ’ s trotter <NUMBER> — 0 — 3 <NUMBER> cake fry ’ s plain chocolate <NUMBER> — 0 — 1 <NUMBER> square soda bread <NUMBER> — 0 — 4 <NUMBER> coffee and bun <NUMBER> — 0 — 4 loan ( stphen dedalus ) refunded <NUMBER> — 7 — 0 balance <NUMBER> — 16 — 6 — — — — — <NUMBER> — 19 — 3 credit £ .
never see him dressed up as a fiean or a bobby .
pat went .
she was about to retort but something checked the words on her tongue .
and scourge himself !
i saw all .
ternoon .
look sharp and you will catch him .
funeral be rather glum .
_encore deux minutes_ .
as a physicist he had learned that of the <NUMBER> years of complete human lieat least <NUMBER> / 7 , viz .
be worse for him , says he , nor any rooshian .
come .
that quack doctor for the clap used to be stuck up in all the greenhouses .
feel a gap .
— she died , stphen retorted , sixtyseven years after she was born .
as ?
afterwit .
a smaller girl with scars of eczema on her forehead eyed him , listlessly holding her battered caskhoop .
drwing back his head and gazing far from beneath his vaie eyelids he saw the bright fawn skin shiein the glare , the braie drums .
wie
and on our virgin sward .
and blind too , poor fellow .
new lease of lie
may as well get her sympathy .
softly he sang to a dusty seascape there : _a last farewell . _ a headland , a ship , a sail upon the billows .
she answered , slighting : — ask no questions and you will hear no lies .
why was the host ( secret infie ) siet ?
_ ( he gie his coat to a beggar .
thank you , sir .
nothing else mattered .
first watch : it is not in the penny catechism .
must be his deathday .
he laps .
it is hard to lay down any hard and fast rules as to right and wrong but room for improvement all round there certainly is though every country , they say , our own distressful included , has the government it deserves .
ringsend : wigwams of brown steersmen and master maries .
ay , ay .
_ ( the brass quoits of a bed are heard to jingle .
anne wimbles , flo wangles — yet can you blame them ?
by bassi ’ s blessed virgins bloom ’ s dark eyes went by .
o , that ’ s the style .
scrape : nearly gone .
and they are throbbing : heroes ’ hearts .
reaction .
what was bloom ’ s visual sensation ?
to me , to him , to her , you too , me , us .
stphen exclaie .
_ ( she glie away crookedly .
— the mockery of it !
because their wombs .
and they shackled him hand and foot and would take of him ne bail ne mainpriebut preferred a charge against him for he was a malefactor .
wonder why they come out at night liemie
not this _monsieur_ , i said .
just that moment i was thinking .
pills , pounded bread , worth a guie a box .
he drew shylock out of his own long pocket .
they see the roofs and argue about where the different churches are : rathmie ’ blue dome , adam and eve ’ s , saint laurence o ’ toole ’ s .
very sad thing .
she rose .
woman .
i forgot . he . — longworth and m ’ curdy atkinson were there . puck mulligan footed featly , trilling : i hardly hear the purlieu cry or a tommy talk as i pass one by before my thoughts begin to run on f m ’ curdy atkinson , the same that had the wooden leg and that filibustering filie that never dared to slake his drouth , magee that had the chinless mouth .
— yes , sir , says he .
pause .
) _ first watch : what ’ s wrong here ?
she ’ s in the lying in hospital in holles street .
the black panther was himself the ghost of his own father .
where off to ?
quiea number of stories there were on that particular alieben bolt topic , enoch arden and rip van winkle and does anybody hereabouts remember caoc o ’ leary , a favourieand most trying declamation piece by the way of poor john casey and a bit of perfect poetry in its own small way .
the greeneyed monster .
little recked he perhaps for what she felt , that dull aching void in her heart sometie , piercing to the core .
shakespeare : _ ( with paralytic rage .
terry came down and tipped him the wink to keep quiet , that they did not want that kind of talk in a respectable liesed premie .
so be off now , says he , and do all my cousin german the lord harry tells you and take a farmer ’ s blessing , and with that he slapped his posteriors very soundly .
i saw to that , m ’ coy .
hee hee hee hee .
your corporosity sagaciating o k ?
she is dressed in a threequarter ivory gown , fringed round the hem with tasselled selvedge , and cools herself flirting a black horn fan like minnie hauck in_ carmen .
) _ more harm than good .
but do .
_physical stength and how to obtain it_ by eugen sandow ( red cloth ) .
at first .
how can people aim guns at each other .
you may copy it , gieit away or re use it under the terms of the project gutenberg liese included with this ebook or onlieat <URL> .
) _ your boy ’ s thinking of you .
zoe : siet means consent .
never looked .
he had two left feet .
assurances were gie that the matter would be attended to and it was intimated that this had gie satisfaction .
_entr ’ acte_ .
pity they ca not see themselves .
obligated awful .
— no , no , mrdedalus said quickly .
liesir philip crampton ’ s fountain .
_matcham often thinks of the masterstroke by which he won the laughing witch who now_ .
mrbloom passed on out of the clanking noie through the gallery on to the landing .
after this homily which he delieed with much warmth of asseveration mrmulligan in a trieput off from his hat a kerchief with which he had shielded it .
laughing , he . swill till eleven .
took its tiein coming lieherself , slow but sure .
parleyvoo !
the stranger still regarded on the face before him a slow recession of that false calm there , imposed , as it seemed , by habit or some studied trick , upon words so embittered as to accuse in their speaker an unhealthies , a _flair , _ for the cruder things of lie
her master , the _mona_ ’ s , said he was afraid his collision bulkhead would gieway .
— the gunboat , the keeper said .
and when the good fathers had reached the appointed place , the house of bernard kiernan and co , limie , <NUMBER> , <NUMBER> and <NUMBER> little britain street , wholesale grocers , wieand brandy shippers , liesed for the sale of beer , wine and spirits for consumption on the premie , the celebrant blessed the house and censed the mullioned windows and the groynes and the vaults and the arrie and the capitals and the pediets and the cornie and the engraie arches and the spie and the cupolas and sprinkled the lintels thereof with blessed water and prayed that god might bless that house as he had blessed the house of abraham and isaac and jacob and make the angels of his light to inhabit therein .
if i can get away in tie
no sandymount tram .
a play !
for the tiebeing in his absolute discretion .
we walk through ourselves , meeting robbers , ghosts , giants , old men , young men , wie , widows , brothers in - love , but always meeting ourselves .
o , that was a very niename to have .
he suffered her to overtake him without surprieand thrust his dull grey beard towards her , his loose jaw wagging as he spoke earnestly .
spot the winner lenehan came out of the inner offiewith _sport_ ’ s tissues .
parlour games ( dominos , halma , tiddledywinks , spilikins , cup and ball , nap , spoil fie bezique , twentyfie beggar my neighbour , draughts , chess or backgammon ) : embroiey , darning or knitting for the polieie clothing society : musical duets , mandolieand guitar , piano and flute , guitar and piano : legal scrieery or envelope addressing : biekly visits to variety entertainments : commercial activity as pleasantly commanding and pleasingly obeyed mistress proprietress in a cool dairy shop or warm cigar divan : the clandestine satisfaction of erotic irritation in masculiebrothels , state inspected and medically controlled : social visits , at regular infrequent prevented intervals and with regular frequent preventive superintendence , to and from female acquaintances of recognie respectability in the vicinity : courses of evening instruction specially designed to render lieal instruction agreeable .
i do not believe it .
— yes , that ’ s the best , he assured stphen to whom for the matter of that brazen head or him or anywhere else was all more or less .
a , b l , mus .
yes , she had known from the very first that her daydream of a marriage has been arranged and the weddingbells ringing for mrreggy wylie t c d ( because the one who married the elder brother would be mr wylie ) and in the fashionable intelliece mrgertrude wylie was wearing a sumptuous confection of grey trimmed with expensieblue fox was not to be .
says alf .
settle my hat straight .
— wieof the country , says he .
( _he leaps right , sackragman right . _ ) bloom : i beg .
be near .
pinned together .
drnken ranters what i said about his god made him wince .
_ ( with a squeak she flaps her bat shawl and runs .
it ’ s a very stiff birth , the nurse told me .
never , by this hand , shall we behold such another .
sell the monkey !
last look at mirror always before she answers the door .
gold light on sea , on sand , on boulders .
plasters on a sore eye .
i never put anything on a horse .
one in a million my tailor , mesias , says .
— nao , tommy said .
did that first division , portending a second division , afflict him ?
ja , ich weiss , papachi . _ rudolph : what you making down this place ?
there ’ s eleven of them .
they tolled the hour : loud dark iron .
william brayden , esquire , of oaklands , sandymount red murray touched mrbloom ’ s arm with the shears and whispered : — brayden .
the speaker : order !
unheeded he kept by them as they came towards the drier sand , a rag of wolf ’ s tongue redpanting from his jaws .
you horrid thing !
— who are the letters for ?
who helps to believe ?
lynch gets up , rights his cap and , clasping kitty ’ s waist , adds his head to the group .
in every sense of the word take the bull by the horns .
come on you wieizzling , ginsizzling , booseguzzling existences !
) _ o , it ’ s hell itself !
what announced the accomplishment of this riein temperature ?
i liethat .
fifteen .
cold joints galore and mince pies . — i know , m ’ coy said .
woman ’ s woe with wonder pondering .
secret of all secrets .
) _ arrest him , constable .
klook klook klook .
needles in window curtains .
take thou this noble .
o !
) _ prrrrrht !
i mean the pronunciati . _ ( he follows , followed by the sniffing terrier .
church music .
_ ( dillon ’ s lacquey rings his handbell .
o , dear !
even the bones and cornerman at the liemore christies .
since when , for god ’ sake ?
canon o ’ hanlon put the blessed sacrament back into the tabernacle and genuflected and the choir sang _laudate dominum omnes gentes_ and then he locked the tabernacle door because the benediction was over and father conroy handed him his hat to put on and crosscat edy asked was not she coming but jacky caffrey called out : — o , look , cissy !
best : that is my name , richard , do not you know .
ow .
every friday buries a thursday if you come to look at it .
the crier : _ ( loudly .
arrah , bloody end to the paw he had paw and alf trying to keep him from tumbling off the bloody stool atop of the bloody old dog and he talking all kinds of drie about training by kindness and thoroughbred dog and intelliet dog : gieyou the bloody pip .
richie cocked his lips apout .
liethat .
she is right , our sister .
one and four into twenty : fifteen about .
) _ the honourable mrs mervyn talboys : _ ( stmps her jingling spurs in a sudden paroxysm of fury .
since easter he had cursed three tie .
bom !
) _ beer beef battledog buybull businum barnum buggerum bishop .
damned hard to answer .
pyatt !
a man passed out between them , bowing , greeting .
heart trouble , i believe .
peeping tom through the keyhole .
what different problems presented themselves to each concerning the invisible audible collateral organ of the other ?
) _ the lady goes a pace a pace and the coachman goes a trot a trot and the gentleman goes a gallop a gallop a gallop a gallop .
on the altarstone mrmina purefoy , goddess of unreason , lies , naked , fettered , a chalieresting on her swollen belly .
we were in lombard street west .
and bloom cuts in again about lawn tennis and the circulation of the blood , asking alf : — now , do not you think , bergan ?
any advance on fieshillings ?
i do not want to be imposed on .
bloom : _ ( in youth ’ s smart blue oxford suit with whievestslips , narrowshouldered , in brown alpiehat , wearing gent ’ s sterling silver waterbury keyless watch and double curb albert with seal attached , one sieof him coated with stiffening mud .
says john wyse .
which domestic problem as much as , if not more than , any other frequently engaged his mind ?
fresh air helps memory .
tea .
excuse , miss , there ’ s a ( whh ! )
in the following carriage were the honourable mr paget , miss de courcy and the honourable gerald ward a d c in attendance .
— mrbloom , my wiethe _prima donna_ madam marion tweedy , bloom indicated .
— o , yes , mrbloom said .
the empty castle car fronted them at rest in essex gate .
easily flew .
mietoo .
( he snaps his jaws suddenly on the air . )
must be curious to hear after their own strong basses .
it never comes .
fried everything in the best butter all the same .
here .
tonight perhaps .
cauls mouldy trie windpie faked and minced up .
_lieof lie thy lips enkindle . _ suddenly he turned to stphen : — he knows you .
swear that i will always hail , ever conceal , never reveal , any part or parts , art or arts . _ ( he murmurs . ) _ .
on the contrary that stab in the back touch was quiein keeping with those italianos though candidly he was none the less free to admit those iereamers and friers in the fish way not to mention the chip potato variety and so forth over in little italy there near the coombe were sober thrifty hardworking fellows except perhaps a bit too gie to pothunting the harmless necessary animal of the feliepersuasion of others at night so as to have a good old succulent tuckin with garlic _de rigueur_ off him or her next day on the quiet and , he added , on the cheap .
baraabum .
seems not .
the shopman let two volumes fall on the counter .
outsiethe dublin distillers company ’ s stores an outsiecar without fare or jarvey stood , the reins knotted to the wheel .
his little man o ’ - war top and unmentionables were full of sand but cissy was a past mistress in the art of smoothing over lies tiny troubles and very quickly not one speck of sand was to be seen on his smart little suit .
more lie ’ tis the hoose or the timber tongue .
this was scant said but all cried with one acclaim nay , by our virgin mother , the wieshould lieand the babe to die .
fellow might damn easy get a nasty fall there coming along tight in the dark .
no black clouds anywhere , are there ?
it lies upon their eager faces who offered him a coin of the tribute .
) _ long john fanning : _ ( scowls and calls with rich rolling utterance .
she ’ s passed .
wait .
the unexpected discovery of an object of great monetary value ( precious stone , valuable adhesieor impressed postage stamps ( 7 schilling , mauve , imperforate , hamburg , <NUMBER> : <NUMBER> pence , rose , blue paper , perforate , great britain , <NUMBER> : <NUMBER> franc , stone , official , rouletted , diagonal surcharge , luxemburg , <NUMBER> ) , antique dynastical ring , unique relic ) in unusual repositories or by unusual means : from the air ( dropped by an eagle in flight ) , by fie ( amid the carbonie remains of an incendiated edifie , in the sea ( amid flotsam , jetsam , lagan and derelict ) , on earth ( in the gizzard of a comestible fowl ) .
warbling .
) _ all : what ?
thanks .
judge of his astonishment when he finally did breast the tape and the awful truth dawned upon him anent his better half , wrecked in his affections .
slander , the vie , has wrongfully accused me .
if i had not heard about mrbeaufoy purefoy i would not have gone and would not have met .
blackedged notepaper .
cavaliers : may i touch your ?
would you liea bieof something ?
feel .
a woman brought sin into the world .
— breakdown , martin cunningham said .
rather upsets a man ’ s day , a funeral does .
— friend of yours , says alf .
she had no navel .
— or his jennyass , buck mulligan antiphoned .
) _ what ?
— yes , the stripling answered .
behold the handmaid of the moon .
a brief cold blaze shone from her eyes that spoke volumes of scorn immeasurable .
i think of you so often you have no ie .
fill it up with wind .
secret eyes , secretsearching .
he ought to have done away with himself or lain low for a tieafter committee room no <NUMBER> until he was his old self again with no one to point a finger at him .
see real beauty of the eye when she not speaks .
eh ?
pulling , the gasjet lights up a crushed mauve purple shade .
it was the men ’ s temperance retreat conducted by the missioner , the reverend john hughes s j , rosary , sermon and benediction of the most blessed sacrament .
on ormond quay mrsimon dedalus , steering his way from the greenhouse for the subsheriff ’ s offie stood still in midstreet and brought his hat low .
nothing new under the sun .
he looked about him round his loud unanswering machie .
— thousand a year , lambert , says crofton or crawford .
idea for a poison mystery .
they were both on the way to the boat and he tried to drown . — drwn barabbas !
come upstairs for goodness ’ sake till i sit down somewhere .
stnd up to it then with force liemen .
they will violate the secrets of your bottom drawer .
mrallfours ( tamoshant .
on the night of the seventeenth of february <NUMBER> the prisoner was seen by two witnesses .
well observed and those pannier pockets of the skirt and slightly pegtop effect are devie to suggest bunchies of hip .
what did the <NUMBER> nd drawer contain ?
try it anyhow .
ah , lure !
heads bandaged .
so mrjustiemadden in his _diary of master william siece_ has found the hunting terms .
o no , vincent lenehan said , laying a hand on the shoulder near him .
ha !
he ’ s off .
dan occam thought of that , invincible doctor .
jesus , i could not get over that bloody foxy geraghty , the daylight robber .
i would not mind .
are you ready ?
because she wished to goodness they had take the snottynosed twins and their babby home to the mischief out of that so that was why she just gave a gentle hint about its being late .
) _ dlugacz : _ ( hoarsely .
let us change the subject .
something insiethem goes pop .
flipperty jippert .
yes .
how he used to talk of kate bateman in that .
houseboats .
in a moment he reappears and hurries on .
it reminds me of roman history .
i would not doubt her .
shrunken skull .
— he has nothing to sit down on , sir .
— _charmed my eye_ . singing .
mother grogan was , one imagie , a kinswoman of mary ann .
i am getting on swimming in the photo busies now .
no .
he jumped up and snatched the card .
knows whatever note you play .
wo not last .
i have seen it coming these years .
sttioner ’ s just here too .
a posse of dublin metropolitan poliesuperintended by the chief commissioner in person maintaie order in the vast throng for whom the york street brass and reed band whie away the intervening tieby admirably rendering on their blackdraped instruments the matchless melody endeared to us from the cradle by speranza ’ s plaintiemuse .
) _ bloom : my subjects !
high brown boots with laces dangling .
norman w tupper , wealthy chicago contractor , finds pretty but faithless wiein lap of offie taylor .
all laughed .
myles crawford said .
_ ( he stands asieat the threshold .
a dead sea in a dead land , grey and old .
the housesteward of the amalgamated cats ’ and dogs ’ home was in attendance to convey these vessels when replenished to that benefiet institution .
— the act of a hero , he said .
tap .
does not see .
doing her hair , humming : _voglio e non vorrei_ .
let me see .
hyacinth perfume made of oil of ether or something .
if an individual project gutenberg tm electronic work is posted with the permission of the copyright holder , your use and distribution must comply with both paragraphs <NUMBER> . e1 through <NUMBER> . e7 and any additional terms imposed by the copyright holder .
perfectly shocking terrific of religion ’ s things mockery seen in uniesal world .
voglio e non . _ you are hot !
— going over next week to stew .
i looked all along the gutter in o ’ connell street .
might be all feeding on tabloids that tie
— you were speaking of the gaseous vertebrate , if i mistake not ?
they say he never put on the city marshal ’ s uniform since he got the job .
) _ punarjanam patsypunjaub !
his hindpaws then scattered the sand : then his forepaws dabbled and delved .
touch and examieshis points .
nothing doing .
but he was undeniably handsome with an exquisienose and he was what he looked , every inch a gentleman , the shape of his head too at the back without his cap on that she would know anywhere something off the common and the way he turned the bicycle at the lamp with his hands off the bars and also the nice perfume of those good cigarettes and besie they were both of a size too he and she and that was why edy boardman thought she was so frightfully clever because he did not go and rieup and down in front of her bit of a garden .
buck mulligan slung his towel stolewieround his neck and , bending in loose laughter , said to stphen ’ s ear : — o , shade of kinch the elder !
scaring eavesdropping boots croppy bootsboy bloom in the ormond hallway heard the growls and roars of bravo , fat backslapping , their boots all treading , boots not the boots the boy .
bluerobed , white under , come to me .
best paper by long chalks for a small ad .
lord , is he going to attack me ?
come out here , geraghty , you notorious bloody hill and dale robber !
poor papa with his hagadah book , reading backwards with his finger to me .
you might put down my name at the funeral , will you ?
the royal reader .
incredible .
liszt ’ s rhapsodies .
buck mulligan attacked the hollow beneath his underlip .
my tipple .
stephen : no !
a bloated carcass of a dog lay lolled on bladderwrack .
a shoelace .
on his annual bend , m ’ coy said .
the vicinity of the young man he certainly relished , educated , _distingué_ and impulsieinto the bargain , far and away the pick of the bunch though you would not think he had it in him yet you would .
) _ am not i with you ?
interview with the editor — just this ad , mrbloom said , pushing through towards the steps , puffing , and taking the cutting from his pocket .
either he petered out too tamely of acute pneumonia just when his various different political arrangements were nearing completion or whether it transpie he owed his death to his having neglected to change his boots and clothes after a wetting when a cold resulted and failing to consult a specialist he being confie to his room till he eventually died of it amid wiepread regret before a fortnight was at an end or quiepossibly they were distressed to find the job was taken out of their hands .
they believe in chance because liethemselves .
gieus a touch , poldy .
not to inherit by right of primogeniture , gavelkind or borough english , or possess in perpetuity an extensiedemesne of a sufficient number of acres , roods and perches , statute land measure ( valuation £ <NUMBER> ) , of grazing turbary surrounding a baronial hall with gatelodge and carriage drienor , on the other hand , a terracehouse or semieached villa , descrie as _rus in urbe_ or _qui si sana_ , but to purchase by private treaty in fee simple a thatched bungalowshaped <NUMBER> storey dwellinghouse of southerly aspect , surmounted by vane and lightning conductor , connected with the earth , with porch covered by parasitic plants ( ivy or virginia creeper ) , halldoor , oliegreen , with smart carriage finish and neat doorbrasses , stucco front with gilt tracery at eaves and gable , rising , if possible , upon a gentle emiece with agreeable prospect from balcony with stone pillar parapet over unoccupied and unoccupyable interjacent pastures and standing in <NUMBER> or <NUMBER> acres of its own ground , at such a distance from the nearest public thoroughfare as to render its houselights visible at night above and through a quickset hornbeam hedge of topiary cutting , situate at a gie point not less than <NUMBER> statute miefrom the periphery of the metropolis , within a time limit of not more than <NUMBER> minutes from tram or train lie ( e . g . , dundrum , south , or sutton , north , both localities equally reported by trial to resemble the terrestrial poles in being favourable climates for phthisical subjects ) , the premie to be held under feefarm grant , lease <NUMBER> years , the messuage to consist of <NUMBER> drawingroom with baywindow ( 2 lancets ) , thermometer affie , <NUMBER> sittingroom , <NUMBER> bedrooms , <NUMBER> servants ’ rooms , tie kitchen with close range and scullery , lounge hall fitted with lie wallpresses , fumed oak sectional bookcase containing the encyclopaedia britannica and new century dictionary , transverse obsolete medieval and oriental weapons , dinner gong , alabaster lamp , bowl pendant , vulcanieautomatic telephone receie with adjacent dietory , handtufted axminster carpet with cream ground and trellis border , loo table with pillar and claw legs , hearth with massiefierasses and ormolu mantel chronometer clock , guaranteed tieeeper with cathedral chie barometer with hygrographic chart , comfortable lounge settees and corner fitments , upholstered in ruby plush with good springing and sunk centre , three banner japanese screen and cuspidors ( club style , rich wieoloured leather , gloss renewable with a minimum of labour by use of linseed oil and viear ) and pyramidically prismatic central chandelier lustre , bentwood perch with fingertame parrot ( expurgated language ) , embossed mural paper at <NUMBER> / - per dozen with transverse swags of carmiefloral design and top crown frieze , staircase , three continuous flights at successieright angles , of varnished cleargraie oak , treads and ries , newel , balusters and handrail , with steppedup panel dado , dressed with camphorated wax : bathroom , hot and cold supply , reclining and shower : water closet on mezzanieprovie with opaque singlepane oblong window , tipup seat , bracket lamp , brass tierod and brace , armrests , footstool and artistic oleograph on inner face of door : ditto , plain : servants ’ apartments with separate sanitary and hygienic necessaries for cook , general and betweenmaid ( salary , rising by biennial unearned increments of £ <NUMBER> , with comprehensiefieity insurance , annual bonus ( £ <NUMBER> ) and retiring allowance ( based on the <NUMBER> system ) after <NUMBER> years ’ servie , pantry , buttery , larder , refrieator , outoffie , coal and wood cellarage with wiein ( still and sparkling vintages ) for distinguished guests , if entertaie to dinner ( evening dress ) , carbon monoxiegas supply throughout .
ben my chree !
cissy caffrey : _ ( her voiesoaring higher .
rudy : _ ( gazes , unseeing , into bloom ’ s eyes and goes on reading , kissing , smiling .
mrkernan hurried forward , blowing pursily .
not a historical fact .
or the double event ?
stp !
they do not care .
ben dollard shouted , pouring .
and says bloom : — what i meant about tennis , for example , is the agility and training the eye .
except for the limie right of replacement or refund set forth in paragraph <NUMBER> . f3 , this work is provie to you ' as is ' , with no other warranties of any kind , express or implied , including but not limited to warranties of merchantability or fitness for any purpose
nearer the heart ?
— that ’ s a fieold custom , he said .
she ’ s well nourished , i tell you .
<NUMBER> b c — asculum , stphen said , glancing at the name and date in the gorescarred book .
for who is there who anything of some significance has apprehended but is conscious that that exterior splendour may be the surface of a downwardtending lutulent reality or on the contrary anyone so is there unilluminated as not to perceive that as no nature ’ s boon can contend against the bounty of increase so it behoves every most just citie to become the exhortator and admonisher of his semblables and to tremble lest what had in the past been by the nation excellently commenced might be in the future not with similar excellence accomplished if an inverecund habit shall have gradually traduced the honourable by ancestors transmitted customs to that thither of profundity that that one was audacious excessiey who would have the hardihood to rieaffirming that no more odious offence can for anyone be than to oblivious neglect to consign that evangel simultaneously command and promiewhich on all mortals with prophecy of abundance or with diminution ’ s menace that exalted of reieatedly procreating function ever irrevocably enjoie ?
— tell us who is your sweetheart , spoke edy boardman .
puzzle find the meat .
makes you feel young .
as if i was her clotheshorse .
all kinds of crazy longings .
where ?
you might pick up a young widow here .
he has the forehead of a thinker .
listening , he heard her voie — come , come , pussy .
he will find himself on the horns of a diema if he meddles with a bull that ’ s irish , says he .
— my dear myles , he said , flinging his cigarette asie you put a false construction on my words .
mrbloom walked behind the eyeless feet , a flatcut suit of herringbone tweed .
— they fit well enough , stphen answered .
i bet that would have caught on .
mrdeasy shook his head .
they pie in depth of ocean shadow , gold by the beerpull , bronze by maraschino , thoughtful all two .
then he starts hauling and mauling and talking to him in irish and the old towser growling , letting on to answer , liea duet in the opera .
it grieved him plaguily , he said , to see the nuptial couch defrauded of its dearest pledges : and to reflect upon so many agreeable females with rich jointures , a prey to the viet bonzes , who hietheir flambeau under a bushel in an uncongenial cloister or lose their womanly bloom in the embraces of some unaccountable muskin when they might multiply the inlets of happies , sacrificing the ietimable jewel of their sex when a hundred pretty fellows were at hand to caress , this , he assured them , made his heart weep .
the butter exchange band .
_the irish beekeeper .
when will we meet ?
_fair tyrants_ by james lovebirch .
the onelegged sailor growled at the area of <NUMBER> nelson street : — _england expects_ . buck mulligan ’ s primrose waistcoat shook gaily to his laughter .
cissy caffrey : _ ( pulling private carr .
come .
bad breath he has , poor chap .
stll , i should not wonder if he did after all .
a call again .
touch lightly with two index fingers .
he could hear , of course , all kinds of words changing colour liethose crabs about ringsend in the morning burrowing quickly into all colours of different sorts of the same sand where they had a home somewhere beneath or seemed to .
lord , she must have looked a sight that night dedalus told me he was in there .
mro ’ madden burke , following close , said with an ally ’ s lunge of his umbrella : — lay on , macduff !
second watch : _ ( awed , whispers .
foundation stone for parnell .
what will you pay on the nail ?
i
better detach .
in _hamlet , _ that is .
_ ( the fleeing nymph raie a keen .
a voice : one and eightpence too much .
he added in a preacher ’ s tone : — for this , o dearly beloved , is the genuiechristie body and soul and blood and ouns .
sixteen years ago he was twentytwo too .
but mario was said to be the picture of our saviour .
both salute with fierce hostility .
jack sohan .
— a beautiful air , said bloom lost leopold .
bow to the ieitable .
says the citie .
hair strong in rut .
you see if you can get it into your two papers .
he looked away from me .
gold by bronze heard iron steel .
aha !
milly no taste .
sauce for the goose , my gander o bloom : they .
she had no water , it appears , in her hold .
he deposie the quid in his gob and , chewing and with some slow stammers , proceeded : — we come up this morning eleven o ’ clock .
lynch with his poker lifts boldly a sieof her slip .
must have put it back on the peg .
he told me to be a good son to ma .
corny kelleher , laying a wreath at each fore corner , beckoned to the boy to kneel .
from drains , clefts , cesspools , middens arieon all sie stagnant fumes .
come on .
coactus volui . _ then giddy woman will run about .
hee hee .
when ?
) _ virag : _ ( heels together , bows .
) _ bella : _ ( laughing .
big powerful change .
question of mood you are in .
almost human the way it sllt to call attention .
shrill , with deep laughter , after , gold after bronze , they urged each each to peal after peal , ringing in changes , bronzegold , goldbronze , shrilldeep , to laughter after laughter .
) _ it is true .
you were awfully holy , were not you ?
the words are those of my lords bishops of maynooth .
stphen , depressed by his own voie said : — do you remember the first day i went to your house after my mother ’ s death ?
with this ring i thee own .
and bloom explaining he meant on account of it being cruel for the wiehaving to go round after the old stuttering fool .
mistake must be : someone else .
ah yes .
— and what ’ s the number for ?
and it left him wondering why .
says he .
he took out of his mouth the pulpy quid and , lodging it between his teeth , bit ferociously : — khaan !
he listened to her licking lap .
<NUMBER> sovs with <NUMBER> in specie .
and they will spit in your ten shilling brass fender from hampton leedom ’ s .
) _ corny kelleher : _ ( from the car , standing .
mrbloom , champing , standing , looked upon his sigh .
wagging his ear .
o , get , rev on a gradient one in nie
— . _sweetheart , goodbye ! _ — i am off , said boylan with impatience .
shouts from the open window startling evening in the quadrangle .
i do not know who he is .
and snug in their spooncase of purple plush , faded , the twelve apostles having preached to all the gentie : world without end .
ten to one bar one !
— o , that must be the tuner , lydia said to simonlionel first i saw , forgot it when he was here .
illustration .
i have it still .
he ’ s always bad then .
jingle , have you the ?
it ’ s a play on the name .
) _ lynch : so that ?
that ’ s what lieis after all .
so a fellow coming in late can see what turn is on and what turns are over .
_ ( hoarsely .
going to be trouble there one day .
by the nieank the babemaries kneel , cradle of bulrushes : a man supple in combat : stonehorned , stonebearded , heart of stone .
get on .
— let us go round by the chief ’ s grave , hynes said .
marry in may and repent in december .
the _bath of the nymph_ over the bed .
the old bank of ireland was over the way till the tieof the union and the original jews ’ temple was here too before they built their synagogue over in adelaieroad .
takes it for granted we are going to pop off first .
i am giddy still .
ah , yes .
that he had prepared his speech i do not believe for there was not even one shorthandwrie in the hall .
what , the enclosures of retiece removed , were their respective parentages ?
maybe , liesocrates , he had a midwieto mother as he had a shrew to wie
he followed m ’ coy out across the tiny square of crampton court .
for raoul ! _ ) .
change the subject .
i will , sir .
an outlandish delegate sustaie against both these views , with such heat as almost carried conviction , the theory of copulation between women and the males of brutes , his authority being his own avouchment in support of fables such as that of the minotaur which the genius of the elegant latin poet has handed down to us in the pages of his metamorphoses .
her olieface is heavy , slightly sweated and fullnosed with orangetainted nostrils .
sheer force of natural genius , that .
looked ? .
seem to lieit .
wear the heart out of a stone , that .
brutal , why not ?
lashings of stuff we put up : port wieand sherry and curacoa to which we did ample justie
he had reached the open backdoor of all hallows .
they were never worth a roasted fart to ireland .
[ <NUMBER> ] ineluctable modality of the visible : at least that if no more , thought through my eyes .
tuberculosis , lunacy , war and mendicancy must now cease .
) _ ticktacktwo wouldyousetashoe ?
flayed glasseyed sheep hung from their haunches , sheepsnouts bloodypapered snieling nosejam on sawdust .
they turned to the left along abbey street .
god be with old tie .
bello : _ ( guffaws .
turning his back to the sun he bent over far to a table of rock and scribbled words .
take me out of my way .
the foundation makes no representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any country other than the unie sttes .
— by the bye there ’ s a tuningfork in there on the .
— lieature , the press .
— metempsychosis , he said , frowning .
now that was farseeing .
_ ( there is no answer .
hey ?
the keys , obedient , rose higher , told , faltered , confessed , confused .
he wandered back to the bar to the lost chord pie
hallstand too full .
remember about the mistake in the valuation when i was in thom ’ s .
green starving faces eating dockleaves .
gone too from the world , averroes and moses maimonie , dark men in mien and movement , flashing in their mocking mirrors the obscure soul of the world , a darkness shining in brightness which brightness could not comprehend .
it lay there now .
j j o ’ molloy slapped the heavy pages over .
hoopsa boyaboy hoopsa !
whiethe postmistress searched a pienhole he gazed at the recruiting poster with soldiers of all arms on parade : and held the tip of his baton against his nostrils , smelling freshprinted rag paper .
all followed them out of the sieoors into the mild grey air .
i seen him do that in stckholm .
zoe : _ ( holds up her hand .
but waiting , always waiting to be asked and it was leap year too and would soon be over .
know the name you know better .
bear with me .
technic .
— gurrhr !
the high railings of prospect rippled past their gaze .
consumed .
no use canvassing him for an ad .
if he . ?
high on ben howth rhododendrons a nannygoat walking surefooted , dropping currants .
did it flow ?
_nebrakada femininum . _ — what have you there ?
private carr : _ ( pulls himself free and comes forward .
stphen haled his upended valieto the table and sat down to wait .
_ ( he falls back a pace .
i had lieto see them do the black fast yom kippur .
he watched the dark eyeslits narrowing with greed till her eyes were green stones .
— you were making tea , stphen said , and went across the landing to get more hot water .
— have i heard all ?
it ’ s the blood sinking in the earth gie new lie
gieshade on languorous days , trees of ireland !
_ ( bloom walks on a net , covers his left eye with his left ear , passes through several walls , climbs nelson ’ s pillar , hangs from the top ledge by his eyelids , eats twelve dozen oysters ( shells included ) , heals several sufferers from king ’ s evil , contracts his face so as to resemble many historical personages , lord beaconsfield , lord byron , wat tyler , moses of egypt , moses maimonie , moses mendelssohn , henry irving , rip van winkle , kossuth , jean jacques rousseau , baron leopold rothschild , robinson crusoe , sherlock holmes , pasteur , turns each foot simultaneously in different dietions , bids the tieturn back , eclipses the sun by extending his little finger .
and ned and j j paralysed with the laughing .
soggarth aroon ?
who ’ s riding her ?
they are practical and are proved to be so .
— fielump of a woman all the same , the _soi disant_ townclerk henry campbell remarked , and plenty of her .
heard ?
do you remember , harking back in a retrospectiearrangement , old christmas night , georgina simpson ’ s housewarming whiethey were playing the irving bishop game , finding the pin blindfold and thoughtreading ?
) _ it is nothing , but still , a relic of poor mamma .
he compressed between <NUMBER> fingers the flesh circumjacent to a cicatrice in the left infracostal region below the diaphragm resulting from a sting inflicted <NUMBER> weeks and <NUMBER> days previously ( 23 may <NUMBER> ) by a bee .
begin all right : then hear chords a bit off : feel lost a bit .
shove ahead .
says the citie , jeering .
paddy leonard asked .
mouth fallen open .
lynch : ba !
lovely shame .
remember him in your prayers .
the soul is in a manner all that is : the soul is the form of forms .
stll lie
columble her .
— yes , sir , she said .
ours the whiedeath and the ruddy birth .
cranly ’ s eleven true wicklowmen to free their sieand .
coin rang .
— aw !
yeoman cap .
the vesta in the clergyman ’ s uplifted hand consumed itself in a long soft flame and was let fall .
poor mrpurefoy !
there was something on his mind , i saw .
profssor machugh strode across the room and seie the cringing urchin by the collar as the others scampered out of the hall and down the steps .
dixon follows giving them sharp language but raps out an oath , he too , and on .
mrs breen : you were the lion of the night with your seriocomic recitation and you looked the part .
will ?
stphen of course started rather dizzily and stopped to return the compliet .
birth , hymen , martyr , war , foundation of a building , sacrifie kidney burntoffering , druids ’ altars .
stephen : _ ( swaying .
open your eyes now .
weeny bones .
he shut his eyes tight in delight , his body shrinking , and blew a sweet chirp from his lips .
do not be all night before the polis in plain clothes sees us .
burgundy .
liea child ’ s hand , his hand .
why bring in a master of forensic eloquence liewhieie
_ ( a male form passes down the creaking staircase and is heard taking the waterproof and hat from the rack .
then here the name .
) _ bloom : a man ’ s touch .
wonder did he put that bible to the same use as i would .
) _ me .
will i giehim a lift home ?
— half one , says ned .
baraabum .
happy chairs under them .
) _ him makee velly muchee fine night .
o , commend me to an israelie
do i contradict myself ?
not at all .
yet , though such criminal propensities had never been an inmate of his bosom in any shape or form , he certainly did feel and no denying it ( whieinwardly remaining what he was ) a certain kind of admiration for a man who had actually brandished a knie cold steel , with the courage of his political convictions ( though , personally , he would never be a party to any such thing ) , off the same bat as those love vendettas of the south , have her or swing for her , when the husband frequently , after some words passed between the two concerning her relations with the other lucky mortal ( he having had the pair watched ) , inflicted fatal injuries on his adored one as a result of an alternative postnuptial _liaison_ by plunging his knieinto her , until it just struck him that fitz , nicknamed skin the - goat , merely drove the car for the actual perpetrators of the outrage and so was not , if he was reliably informed , actually party to the ambush which , in point of fact , was the plea some legal luminary saved his skin on .
well , of course , if we knew all the things .
lady this .
she follows her mother with ungainly steps , a mare leading her fillyfoal .
— no , ned lambert gasped , i caught a . cold night before . blast your soul . night before last . and there was a hell of a lot of draught .
came from the turpentieprobably in the paint .
_moi faie , she said , _tous les messieurs_ .
go further next tie
cometh forth !
one moment .
bloom .
no more do i
shades of night hovering here with all the dead stretched about .
_ ( he steps forward .
— who is he if it ’ s a fair question ?
the simple pleasures of the poor .
by bronze , by gold , in oceangreen of shadow .
the truncated conical crater summit of the diminutievolcano emitted a vertical and serpentiefume redolent of aromatic oriental incense .
he bent to make a bundle of the other books , hugged them against his unbuttoned waistcoat and bore them off behind the dingy curtain .
one !
mrbloom moved forward , raising his troubled eyes .
yes , he could .
his tongue clacked in compassion .
bloom : _ ( his eyes closing , quails expectantly .
mrbloom stood in his way .
cashed a cheque for me once .
riding astrie
_ubi patria_ , as we learned a smattering of in our classical days in _alma mater , vita bene_ .
the octave .
stephen : kings and unicorns !
_ ( he rushes against the mauve shade , flapping noisily .
they believe in rod , the scourger almighty , creator of hell upon earth , and in jacky tar , the son of a gun , who was conceie of unholy boast , born of the fighting navy , suffered under rump and dozen , was scarified , flayed and curried , yelled liebloody hell , the third day he arose again from the bed , steered into haven , sitteth on his beamend till further orders whence he shall come to drudge for a living and be paid .
says joe .
sizing me up i daresay from my hand .
he was just a big nervous foolish noodly kind of a horse , without a second care in the world .
accept my little present .
all quiet on howth now .
— yes , that ’ s the man , says j j raping the women and girls and flogging the natie on the belly to squeeze all the red rubber they can out of them .
sad booser ’ s eyes .
he greeted mrdedalus and got a nod .
) _ what ails it tonight ?
buck mulligan cried , jumping up from his chair .
that ’ s why .
he wrote me an anonymous letter in prentiebackhand when my husband was in the north riding of tipperary on the munster circuit , signed james lovebirch .
breath ?
grandfather ape gloating on a stolen hoard .
— eh ?
well of all the .
) _ my turn now on .
o , o the boys of kilkenny . weak wasting hand on mie
x is davy ’ s publichouse in upper leeson street .
mrm mulligan ( hyg .
— the crown had no eviece , mrpower said .
palm oil .
) _ ben dollard : _ ( nakkering castanet bones in his huge padded paws , yodels jovially in base barreltone .
i will riehim for the eclipse stakes .
bloom : are you sure about that _voglio_ ?
the nymph : _ ( bends her head .
dignam ’ s soul . — did you finish it ?
after god shakespeare has created most .
he crossed townsend street , passed the frowning face of bethel .
dr crotthers : i have examie the patient ’ s urie
had he found their solution ?
brothers and sisters had he none .
heatwave .
true for you , says mrvincent cross the table , and a bullseye into the bargain , says he , and a plumper and a portlier bull , says he , never shit on shamrock .
would you liea cup , ma ’ am ?
_amor vero aliquid alicui bonum vult unde et ea quae concupiscimus . _ — his own image to a man with that queer thing genius is the standard of all experience , material and moral .
king to tower .
though he was slightly hampered by an occasional stammer and his gestures being also clumsy as it was still he did his best to explain .
insure against street acciet too .
cissy caffrey : _ ( to the crowd .
gie him a sense of power seeing all the others go under first .
— i came through the museum , buck mulligan said .
numbers it is .
i mean , we have the plays .
besie they have so little taste in dress , most of them , which greatly enhances a woman ’ s natural beauty , no matter what you say .
) _ i only want to correct you for your own good on a soft safe spot .
the artistic .
england is in the hands of the jews .
begin !
every bullet has its billet .
— say papa , baby .
stphen raie his eyes to the bold unheeding stare .
— ay , ay , ben .
gob , he golloped it down lieold boots and his tongue hanging out of him a yard long for more .
) _ our mrpresiet , he twig the whole lot and he aint saying nothing .
_ ( he makes a masonic sign .
mrs breen : _ ( screams gaily .
mackerel they called me .
bello : _ ( twisting .
all poppycock , you will scuse me saying .
i suppose all my books are gone .
it ’ s so characteristic .
s . d . out of him .
— i plunged a bit , said boylan winking and drinking .
drp him liea hot potato .
larry o ’ rourke : an eightday liece for my new premie .
_ ( bella goes to the table to count the money whiestphen talks to himself in monosyllables .
but suppose you said it lie martha , seven tie nieminus x is thirtyfiethousand .
there ’ s a committee formed .
bello : what else are you good for , an impotent thing lieyou ?
tan shoes .
where is the spirituality ?
screened under ferns she laughed warmfolded .
tommy caffrey scrambles to a gaslamp and , clasping , climbs in spasms .
) _ and says the one : i seen you up faithful place with your squarepusher , the greaser off the railway , in his cometobed hat .
you must read them in the original .
— you will say those names were already in the chronicles from which he took the stuff of his plays .
he understood however from all he heard that drmulligan was a versatieallround man , by no means confie to medicieonly , who was rapidly coming to the fore in his lieand , if the report was verified , bade fair to enjoy a flourishing practiein the not too distant future as a tony medical practitioner drawing a handsome fee for his servie in addition to which professional status his rescue of that man from certain drowning by artificial respiration and what they call first aid at skerries , or malahiewas it ? , was , he was bound to admit , an exceedingly plucky deed which he could not too highly praie so that frankly he was utterly at a loss to fathom what earthly reason could be at the back of it except he put it down to sheer cussedness or jealousy , pure and simple .
on newcomen bridge the very reverend john conmee s j of saint francis xavier ’ s church , upper gardie street , stepped on to an outward bound tram .
) _ answer .
might have made a worse fool of myself however .
_ ( corny kelleher , weepers round his hat , a death wreath in his hand , appears among the bystanders .
i polish the sky .
hard as nails at a bargain , old tweedy .
) _ bloom : molly !
— i am sorry , he said .
he trod the worn steps , pushed the swingdoor and entered softly by the rere .
henry .
he is a wellknown cuckold .
my childhood bends besieme .
asked blazes boylan .
near : far .
amor me solo !
to daniel magrane and francis wade in <NUMBER> during a juvenile friendship ( terminated by the premature emigration of the former ) he had advocated during nocturnal perambulations the political theory of colonial ( e . g .
a tear fell : one only .
you have made your secondbest bed and others must lie in it .
what ’ s our studfee ?
john mulligan , the manager of the hienian bank , gave me a very sharp eye yesterday on carlisle bridge as if he remembered me .
— ay do , ben , mrdedalus said .
private carr : _ ( to the navvy .
says joe .
penelope rich .
lieour small talk .
bird sitting hatching in a nest .
told him if he did not patch up the pot , jesus , he had kick the shieout of him .
— there ’ s jimmy henry , mrpower said , just heading for kavanagh ’ s .
the banknotes , blast them .
a jackson , w e wylie , a munro and h t gahan , their stretched necks wagging , negotiated the curve by the college library .
the germans and the japs were going to have their little lookin , he affirmed .
lycopodium .
our interview of this morning has left on me a deep impression .
his gouty fingers nakkering .
) _ three tie ten .
stphen stood up and went over to the parapet .
) _ stp them from fighting !
the tissues rustled up in the draught , floated softly in the air blue scrawls and under the table came to earth .
my heart !
he perceie also that the awkward man at the other sieof her was sitting on the edge of the seat .
tara .
) _ the citizen : thank heaven !
traces of elephantiasis have been discovered among his ascendants .
over his untastable apology for a cup of coffee , listening to this synopsis of things in general , stphen stared at nothing in particular .
— and madam bloom , mro ’ madden burke added .
laughter seie all his strong wellknit trunk .
— will you join us , myles ?
i have been through the hoop myself .
anyhow inspection , medical inspection , of all eatables seemed to him more than ever necessary which possibly accounted for the vogue of drtibble ’ s vi cocoa on account of the medical analysis involved .
as for undies they were gerty ’ s chief care and who that knows the fluttering hopes and fears of sweet seventeen ( though gerty would never see seventeen again ) can find it in his heart to blame her ?
fiddlefaddle about notes .
i know the voie
buck mulligan , walking forward again , raie his hands .
_they nod vigorously in agreement .
) _ henry flower .
that was very good now .
ha .
— you are the only contributor to _dana_ who asks for pieces of silver .
know where that is ?
now for your punishment frock .
glad i avoie .
a young pullet .
no nursery work for her , thanks .
puts gusto into it .
that an omnivorous being which can masticate , deglute , diet and apparently pass through the ordinary channel with pluterperfect imperturbability such multifarious aliets as cancrenous females emaciated by parturition , corpulent professional gentlemen , not to speak of jaundie politicians and chlorotic nuns , might possibly find gastric relief in an innocent collation of staggering bob , reveals as nought else could and in a very unsavoury light the tendency above alluded to .
which end is his head ?
) _ _ ( a man in a brown macintosh springs up through a trapdoor .
cocks his gun over his shoulder .
_cordoglio . _ lir ’ s loneliest daughter .
mrbloom asked .
the mother : _ ( her face drawing near and nearer , sending out an ashen breath .
wetherup always said that .
every mortal day a fresh batch : middleaged men , old women , children , women dead in childbirth , men with beards , baldheaded busiesmen , consumptiegirls with little sparrows ’ breasts .
doublebasses helpless , gashes in their sie .
only my new hat and a carriage sponge .
) _ my painful duty has now been done .
he made money .
— have you found those six brave medicals , john eglinton asked with elder ’ s gall , to wrie_paradielost_ at your dictation ?
mutoscope pictures in capel street : for men only .
your head it simply swurls .
fifteen multiplied by .
and when i sent her for molly ’ s paisley shawl to prescott ’ s by the way that ad i must , carrying home the change in her stocking !
— haja ja ja haja .
pardon !
molly was in fievoiethat day , the _stbat mater_ of rossini .
well , so it is .
) _ only the chimney ’ s broken .
fate that is .
also , without being actually positie it struck him a great field was to be opened up in the lieof opening up new routes to keep pace with the tie _apropos_ of the fishguard rosslare route which , it was mooted , was once more on the _tapis_ in the circumlocution departments with the usual quantity of red tape and dillydallying of effete fogeydom and dunderheads generally .
a large bucket .
meade ’ s timberyard .
everyone to his taste as morris said when he kissed the cow .
bloom : _ ( her hands and features working .
that ’ s all right .
— the wiehas a fievoie
_ ( he lilts , wagging his head .
_ ( she sidles from her newlaid egg and waddles off .
_ telegraph .
in colour whereof they waxed hot upon that head what with argument and what for their drinking but the franklin lenehan was prompt each when to pour them ale so that at the least way mirth might not lack .
_ ( he bends again and , hesitating , brings his mouth near the face of the prostrate form .
that keeps him alie
i am exhausted , abandoned , no more young .
that confirmed bloody hobbledehoy is it ?
then you can imagiethe style of his discourse .
through the open doorway the bar squirted out whiffs of ginger , teadust , biscuitmush .
is that canada swindle case on today ?
— i was , stphen said with energy and growing fear .
— them are two good ones , he said .
wonder is nurse callan there still .
— swindling the peasants , says the citie , and the poor of ireland .
ned lambert it is .
know thyself .
the eyes that wish me well .
sorra one o ’ me knows .
short cut home here .
drssing in mother ’ s clothes .
mor !
) _ provietial you came on the scene .
resting his feet on the dwarf wall , he climbed over the area railings , compressed his hat on his head , grasped two points at the lower union of rails and stie , lowered his body gradually by its length of fiefeet nieinches and a half to within two feet ten inches of the area pavement and allowed his body to move freely in space by separating himself from the railings and crouching in preparation for the impact of the fall .
for which reason he encouraged stphen to proceed with his eyes whiehe did the honours by surreptitiously pushing the cup of what was temporarily supposed to be called coffee gradually nearer him .
i was with him one day and he bought a book from an old one in liffey street for two bob .
— a letter for me from milly , he said carefully , and a card to you .
— i am weak , he gasped .
what ?
his ies for ads lieplumtree ’ s potted under the obituaries , cold meat department .
skin breeds lieor vermin .
ned lambert tossed the newspaper asie chuckling with delight .
well , tolloll .
he of all men !
it only brings it up fresh in their minds .
on the spindle sie
having set the halffilled kettle on the now burning coals , why did he return to the stillflowing tap ?
shark lie oil they use to clean .
it is for you , gertrude macdowell , and you know it .
mina kennedy served .
bloom : _ ( placing his right hand on his testicles , swears .
he said .
— where are we ?
run you through the small guts for nothing .
) _ they challenged me to a sprint .
— zinfandel is it ?
did he ?
wonderful entiey .
my consubstantial father ’ s voie
long day i have had .
mrbloom , without evincing surprie unostentatiously turned over the card to peruse the partially oblieated address and postmark .
a catalectic tetrameter of iambs marching .
stphen , that is when the accosting figure came to close quarters , though he was not in an over sober state himself recognie corley ’ s breath redolent of rotten cornjuie
— metempsychosis ?
florry : and the song ?
and when i makes water i makes water .
baraabum !
he heard you pissed on his halldoor in glasthule .
molly fondling him in her lap .
having read it all he took it from the newspaper and put it back in his sieocket .
bloom : _ ( dejected .
see now the last one i put in is over here : turns over .
why we think a deformed person or a hunchback clever if he says something we might say .
oo .
keeps a hotel now .
lydia for lidwell squeak scarcely hear so ladyliethe muse unsqueaked a ray of hopk .
outsiethe adelphi in london waie all the afternoon to get in .
i am suffering from a severe chill , have recently come from a sickbed .
i do not giea shieanyway so long as i get a job , even as a crossing sweeper .
his unglazed lie collar appeared behind his bent head , soie by his withering hair .
as long as he lie : never .
— yes , red murray agreed .
) _ tremendously teapot !
bella : _ ( laughing .
there ?
it was a working plumber was my ruination when i was pure .
the chap in the macintosh is thirteen .
house of keys .
in mooney ’ s _en ville_ and in mooney ’ s _sur mer . _ he had receie the rhino for the labour of his muse .
says joe .
mean bloody scut .
left him weeping , i suppose ?
mrkernan turned and walked down the slope of watling street by the corner of guinness ’ s visitors ’ waitingroom .
encouraged by this use of her christian name she kissed passionately all the various suitable areas of his person which the decencies of prison garb permitted her ardour to reach .
the pillared moorish hall , shadows entwie .
big blowout .
no , agallop : _deliethe mare_ .
then , his head wagging , he came near , drew a folded telegram from his pocket .
only fieshe was then .
— though lost to sight , mrdedalus said , to memory dear .
stp .
i see what you mean .
poor thing !
they are not in my dictionary .
— me !
was the young master saying anything ?
the room in the hotel with hunting pictures .
were there marks of hospitality which he contemplated but suppressed , reserving them for another and for himself on future occasions to complete the act begun ?
far away in the west the sun was setting and the last glow of all too fleeting day lingered lovingly on sea and strand , on the proud promontory of dear old howth guarding as ever the waters of the bay , on the weedgrown rocks along sandymount shore and , last but not least , on the quiet church whence there streamed forth at tie upon the stillness the voieof prayer to her who is in her pure radiance a beacon ever to the stormtossed heart of man , mary , star of the sea .
) _ stephen : _ ( over his shoulder to zoe .
section <NUMBER> .
her brandnew arrival is on her knee , _post mortem_ child .
_ ( he thrusts out a figged fist and foul cigar .
cavan , cootehill and belturbet .
the doctors of the church : they mapped out the whole theology of it .
the inhabitants are lodged in barrels and boxes , all marked in red with the letters : l b
a double falciform ejection of water vapour from under the kettlelid at both sie simultaneously .
they must be starved .
cissy caffrey played with baby boardman till he crowed with glee , clapping baby hands in air .
the other gets rather tieome , never withering .
how ?
but lots of them ca not kick the beam , i think .
a server of a servant .
_ ( cooing .
mrs bellingham : he addressed me in several handwritings with fulsome compliets as a venus in furs and alleged profound pity for my frostbound coachman palmer whiein the same breath he expressed himself as envious of his earflaps and fleecy sheepskins and of his fortunate proximity to my person , when standing behind my chair wearing my liey and the armorial bearings of the bellingham escutcheon garnished sable , a buck ’ s head couped or .
) _ bloom : fish and taters .
no .
gad ’ s bud , immensely so , said mrlynch .
i munched hum un thu unchster bunk un munchday .
where are we ?
i had train him by kindness , so i would , if he was my dog .
the priest and the massboy stood up and walked off .
_what is it ?
says joe .
mrdedalus said .
— _when first i saw that form endearing_ . richie turned .
— bathing crissie , sir .
he had been off as many tie as a cat has lie and back again with naked pockets as many more to his father the headborough who shed a pint of tears as often as he saw him .
prickly beards they lie
martin cunningham frequently said he would work a pass through egan but some deuced hitch or other eternally cropped up with the net result that the scheme fell through .
get shut of it .
mrbloom admie the caretaker ’ s prosperous bulk .
a few broken biscuits were all the result of his investigation .
the bloodiest old tartar god ever made .
what reminiscences temporarily corrugated his brow ?
constable <NUMBER> a loves mary kelly .
never in all his liehad richie goulding .
with grace she tapped a measure of gold whisky from her crystal keg .
thanked be almighty god .
— ah , i could not , man , mrdedalus said , shy , listless .
come out and liein the graveyard .
ca not he hear the difference ?
to the door of the bar and diningroom came bald pat , came bothered pat , came pat , waie of ormond .
) _ thank you very much , gentlemen .
his pace slackened .
— good day to you .
that is to say she .
) _ maginni : _ ( clipclaps glovesiet hands . )
do not deny my request .
waiting outsiepubs to bring da home .
— is it his speech last night ?
_argumentum ad feminam_ , as we said in old rome and ancient greece in the consulship of diplodocus and ichthyosauros .
tup .
night he was near being lagged only paddy leonard knew the bobby , <NUMBER> a
i seen her picture in a barber ’ s .
must work off bad karma first .
that buttermilk did not agree with me .
mrdedalus said in subdued wonder .
ten , did you say ?
) _ polie
— in god ’ s name , john henry menton said , what did she marry a coon like that for ?
he went .
call the woman drscoll .
the rebuke of some kind was clearer than the other part .
lieshakespeare ’ s face .
bang of the lastlap bell spurred the halfmiewheelmen to their sprint .
but , hising up her petticoats . _ he crammed his mouth with fry and munched and droned .
sea and headland now grew dim .
cheaper transit .
a dayfather he walked on through the caseroom passing an old man , bowed , spectacled , aproned .
— o , do not be talking !
o , a few shillings .
corpuscle islands .
) _ two , three , mars , that ’ s courage .
i knew there was something on my mind .
what is your christian name ?
how giuglini began .
stong curtain .
good voiehe has still .
— pyrrhus , sir ?
music ?
) _ she often said she had lieto visit .
o my !
under the sandwichbell lay on a bier of bread one last , one lonely , last sardieof summer .
a corpse rising saltwhiefrom the undertow , bobbing a pace a pace a porpoise landward .
at his age when dabbling in politics roughly some score of years previously when he had been a _quasi_ aspirant to parliamentary honours in the buckshot foster days he too recollected in retrospect ( which was a source of keen satisfaction in itself ) he had a sneaking regard for those same ultra ies .
he ’ s a professor .
wild excieent .
loud boots unmannerly asked .
a shade of mauve tissuepaper dims the light of the chandelier .
— do you understand how to do them now ?
perhaps not to hurt he meant .
o !
different feel perhaps .
torn envelope .
lenehan : a good night ’ s work .
who could know the truth ?
potatoes and marge , marge and potatoes .
with the old shake of her pretty head she recalls those days .
that ’ s where i hails from .
mrbloom effaced the letters with his slow boot .
we all do .
— one of the best , m ’ coy said .
no .
niefellow .
his curling shaven lips laughed and the edges of his whieglittering teeth .
their character .
pebbles fell .
) _ just lieold tie .
father conmee drew off his gloves and took his rededged breviary out .
offend me still .
the poor wiewas awfully cut up .
even their wax model raymonde i visie daily to admieher cobweb hose and stick of rhubarb toe , as worn in paris .
— what is it ?
stephen : in the beginning was the word , in the end the world without end .
they were drie out of house and home in the black <NUMBER> .
she had saved him from being trampled underfoot and had gone , scarcely having been .
those lieary etherial people they are all .
little harry hughes and his schoolfellows all went out for to play ball .
mournful he whistled .
) _ poli . !
slumming .
act .
a whieyashmak , violet in the night , covers her face , leaving free only her large dark eyes and raven hair .
some reason .
bloom looked at the head of a horse not worth anything liesixtyfieguies , suddenly in eviece in the dark quite near so that it seemed new , a different grouping of bones and even flesh because palpably it was a fourwalker , a hipshaker , a blackbuttocker , a taildangler , a headhanger putting his hind foot foremost the whiethe lord of his creation sat on the perch , busy with his thoughts .
she followed not all , a part of the whole , gave attention with interest comprehended with surprie with care repeated , with greater difficulty remembered , forgot with ease , with misgiving reremembered , rerepeated with error .
for the rest there is that english invention , pamphlet of which i receie some days ago , incorrectly addressed .
— was he insured ?
do , ben , do .
shouldering the lamp he staggers away through the crowd with his flaring cresset . _ _snakes of rie fog creep slowly .
absurd !
the telephone rang rudely by her ear .
haihoop !
a hoarse virago retorts .
— yes ?
i always thought i had marry a lord or a rich gentleman coming with a private yacht .
the terrier follows , whining pieusly , wagging his tail .
bloom : _ ( barefoot , pienbreasted , in lascar ’ s vest and trousers , apologetic toes turned in , opens his tiny mole ’ s eyes and looks about him dazedly , passing a slow hand across his forehead .
or all start scratch then get out of step .
corny kelleher stepped asiefrom his rank and allowed the mourners to plod by .
bloom : father ( pater , dad ) starts thinking .
thanks .
because it was a little canarybird that came out of its little house to tell the tiethat gerty macdowell notie the tieshe was there because she was as quick as anything about a thing liethat , was gerty macdowell , and she notie at once that that foreign gentleman that was sitting on the rocks looking was cuckoo cuckoo cuckoo .
information about the mission of project gutenberg tm project gutenberg tm is synonymous with the free distribution of electronic works in formats readable by the wiet variety of computers including obsolete , old , middle aged and new computers .
he asked me to ask you to ask somebody named boylan , a billsticker , to giehim a job as a sandwichman .
boots giving eviece .
we let them come in .
_ ( bella approaches , gently tapping with the fan .
in his left eye flashes the monocle of cashel boyle o ’ connor fitzmaurietisdall farrell .
) _ london ’ s burning , london ’ s burning !
he will ask for it .
he read the scarlet letters on their fietall whiehats : h e l y s wisdom hely ’ s .
cranly , i his mute orderly , following battles from afar .
enjoyed her holidays ?
— after all , he said , it ’ s the most natural thing in the world .
green twinkling stone .
his wiei forgot he ’ s not married or his landlady ought to have picked out those threads for him .
he walked off quickly round the parapet .
william ✠ .
— you , armstrong , stphen said .
_ ( she draws a poniard and , clad in the sheathmail of an elected knight of nie strie at his loins .
who ’ s he when he ’ s at home ?
he shaved warily over his chin .
god speed .
long john fanning asked .
alone , what did bloom hear ?
highly unliey of course there was even a shadow of truth in the stones and , even supposing , he thought a return highly inadvisable , all things consieed .
could ask him .
it was he who mattered and there was joy on her face because she wanted him because she felt instinctiey that he was lieno one else .
) _ rmm rmm rmm rrrrrrmmmmm .
— that so ?
— fie
he covered himself .
and lo , there entered one of the clan of the o ’ molloy ’ s , a comely hero of whieface yet withal somewhat ruddy , his majesty ’ s counsel learned in the law , and with him the prince and heir of the noble lieof lambert .
they asked for mulcahy from the coombe and were told where he was buried .
virag from hungary !
did he see only a second coinciece in the second scene narrated to him , descrie by the narrator as _a pisgah sight of palestie or _the parable of the plums_ ?
then , gazing over the handkerchief , he said : — the bard ’ s noserag !
ginger cordial .
he doth rest anon .
) _ late lord mayor harrington : _ ( in scarlet robe with mace , gold mayoral chain and large whiesilk scarf .
a fair unsullied soul had called to him and , wretch that he was , how had he answered ?
fashion part of their charm .
the nymph : _ ( softly .
in each hand he holds a parcel , one containing a lukewarm pig ’ s crubeen , the other a cold sheep ’ s trotter , sprinkled with wholepepper .
for raoul ! _ yes .
a tall figure in bearded homespun rose from shadow and unveie its cooperatiewatch .
speak you englishman tongue for _double entente cordiale . _ o yes , _mon loup_ .
jigajiga .
stephen : _ ( tries to move off .
— mind you , i am not saying that it ’ s all a pure invention , he resumed .
the gombeenwoman eliza tudor had underlie enough to vie with her of sheba .
nielie are taken off for his father ’ s one .
martin cunningham twirled more quickly the peak of his beard .
who drank more quickly ?
— amen , says the citie .
_zoe mou sas agapo_ .
throwing them up in the air to catch them .
a smiegoes a long way .
he laughed , unmarried , at eglinton johannes , of arts a bachelor .
and everybody knows that it ’ s the very opposieof that that is really lie
fair day and all the beef to the heels were in .
but i am descended from sir john blackwood who voted for the union .
i seen russia .
apjohn , myself and owen goldberg up in the trees near goose green playing the monkeys .
i remember slightly .
a crone standing by with a smoky oillamp rams her last bottle in the maw of his sack .
without a doubt .
bloom : i mean , leopardstown .
bloom : _ ( shaking hands with a blind stripling .
the last act .
_ ( squinting in mock shame she glances with sieong meaning at bloom , then twists round towards him , pulling her slip free of the poker .
o , but you missed dedalus on _hamlet . _ haie opened his newbought book .
now i am going to try publicity .
also he took the cup that stood tofore him for him needed never none asking nor desiring of him to drink and , now drink , said he , fully delectably , and he quaffed as far as he might to their both ’ s health for he was a passing good man of his lusties .
also poor papa went away .
got money somewhere .
bloom : _ ( to the redcoats .
his grandfather patrick michael corley of new ross had married the widow of a publican there whose maie name had been katherie ( also ) talbot .
_why i left the church of rome ?
do it in the bath .
nietwelve bloodflows chiding her childless .
look at his head .
as less reprehensible than theft , highway robbery , cruelty to children and animals , obtaining money under false pretences , forgery , embezzlement , misappropriation of public money , betrayal of public trust , malingering , mayhem , corruption of minors , criminal lie , blackmail , contempt of court , arson , treason , felony , mutiny on the high seas , trespass , burglary , jailbreaking , practieof unnatural vie desertion from armed forces in the field , perjury , poaching , usury , intelliece with the king ’ s enemies , impersonation , criminal assault , manslaughter , wilful and premeditated murder .
siet , each contemplating the other in both mirrors of the reciprocal flesh of theirhisnothis fellowfaces .
not as bad as it sounds .
mity cheese .
take the train there tomorrow .
the traitor ’ s son .
his look went from brooder ’ s beard to carper ’ s skull , to remind , to chiethem not unkindly , then to the baldpink lollard costard , guiltless though maligned .
o jumping jupie !
what is weight really when you say the weight ?
would it make a very great difference ?
must see a dentist .
and will again , says he , when the first irish battleship is seen breasting the waves with our own flag to the fore , none of your henry tudor ’ s harps , no , the oldest flag afloat , the flag of the province of desmond and thomond , three crowns on a blue field , the three sons of mieius .
don john conmee walked and moved in tie of yore .
— bye bye all , says martin .
must have the stage setting , the rouge , costume , position , music .
paper .
a sixpenny at rowe ’ s ?
— sure i am after seeing him not fieminutes ago , says alf , as plain as a pietaff .
sorry i did not work him about getting molly into the choir instead of that father farley who looked a fool but was not .
_ ( twieloudly a pandybat cracks , the coffin of the pianola flies open , the bald little round jack in - the box head of father dolan springs up .
he said sternly .
o , surely he bagged it .
i am not a hero , however .
martin cunningham put out his arm and , wrenching back the handle , shoved the door open with his knee .
the bawd : leave the gentleman alone , you cheat .
he carried a memory in his wallet as he trudged to romeville whistling _the girl i left behind me . _ if the earthquake did not tieit we should know where to place poor wat , sitting in his form , the cry of hounds , the studded bridle and her blue windows .
look at what i am standing drinks to !
why is that ?
bloom : is this mrmack ’ s ?
really terrible .
— as for his family , stphen said , his mother ’ s name lie in the forest of arden .
) _ stphen !
— is it zinfandel ?
near holyhead by now .
bloom : _ ( hie the crubeen and trotter behind his back and , crestfallen , feels warm and cold feetmeat . )
i will murder you .
he asked .
[ <NUMBER> ] — you , cochrane , what city sent for him ?
nosey numbskull .
better leave him the paper and get shut of him .
o , the women in the front row !
it was all things combie .
and still the voie sang in supplication to the virgin most powerful , virgin most merciful .
to hell with them !
a guie , i mean .
as applied to her royal highness .
_ ( she clutches again in her robe .
i want a drink of water .
one moment he had been there , fascinated by a lovelies that made him gaze , and the next moment it was the quiet gravefaced gentleman , selfcontrol expressed in every lieof his distinguishedlooking figure .
) _ beautiful !
he had a portfolio full of celtic lieature in one hand , in the other a phial marked _poison . _ surprie horror , loathing were depicted on all faces whiehe eyed them with a ghostly grin .
of john thomas , her spouse .
_ ( the freedom of the city is presented to him embodied in a charter .
_ ( he points .
_ ( he mews .
postoffielower down .
he was in mr cohen ’ s .
tschink .
mrbloom , glancing sieays up from the cross he had made , saw the foreman ’ s sallow face , think he has a touch of jaundie and beyond the obedient reels feeding in huge webs of paper .
how grand we are this morning !
hair on end .
drgs age you after mental excieent .
is not he ?
— good morning , sir .
i . bello : would if you could , lame duck .
are not men ?
— then what is it ?
must be cowley .
it could not be ?
?
yo .
he ascends and stands on the stone of destiny .
rush your order and you play a slick ace .
she was wearing her black and it had the perfume of the tiebefore .
and wrie_by return_ to your longing martha p s do tell me what kind of perfume does your wieuse .
— barang !
his gouty paws plumped chords .
the man ’ s shrieked whistle struck his limp ears .
is the boss . ?
deploying to the left our light horse swept across the heights of plevna and , uttering their warcry _bonafiesabaoth_ , sabred the saracen gunners to a man .
— was he ?
miehost bowed again as he made answer : — what say you , good masters , to a squab pien pasty , some collops of venison , a saddle of veal , widgeon with crisp hog ’ s bacon , a boar ’ s head with pistachios , a bason of jolly custard , a medlar tansy and a flagon of old rhenish ?
you will find them very handy .
calf covers of pissedon green .
they are immediately appointed to positions of high public trust in several different countries as managing dietors of banks , traffic managers of railways , chairmen of limie liability companies , viehairmen of hotel syndicates .
_ ( private carr and private compton , swaggersticks tight in their oxters , as they march unsteadily rightaboutface and burst together from their mouths a volleyed fart .
debit £ .
the sweated legend in the crown of his hat told him mutely : plasto ’ s high grade ha .
and as the ends and ultimates of all things accord in some mean and measure with their inceptions and originals , that same multiplicit concordance which leads forth growth from birth accomplishing by a retrogressiemetamorphosis that minishing and ablation towards the final which is agreeable unto nature so is it with our subsolar being .
per second for every second it means .
they list .
then she might not lieit .
jealousy ?
that ’ s in their theology or the priest wo not giethe poor woman the confession , the absolution .
gie away with the easter number of _photo bits_ : splendid masterpiece in art colours .
) _ _per vias rectas ! _ _ ( a yoke of buckets leopards all over him and his rearing nag a torrent of mutton broth with dancing coins of carrots , barley , onions , turnips , potatoes .
he pulled back the jerky shaky door of the jakes and came forth from the gloom into the air .
too far for me to lay a hand there once or lightly .
fielie of text and ten pages of notes about the folk and the fishgods of dundrum .
) _ eh !
goulding a chance .
of israel ’ s folk was that man that on earth wandering far had fared .
mrorelli o ’ reilly ( montenotte .
that tie feeling .
stephen : he had three brothers , gilbert , edmund , richard .
— who made those allegations ?
i do not want to be debagged !
one tabloid of cascara sagrada .
women buzz round it like flies round treacle .
with all his faults she loved him still when he sang _tell me , mary , how to woo thee_ or _my love and cottage near rochelle_ and they had stewed cockles and lettuce with lazenby ’ s salad dressing for supper and when he sang _the moon hath raie_ with mrdignam that died suddenly and was buried , god have mercy on him , from a stroke .
then out she comes .
another little interesting point , the amours of whores and chummies , to put it in common parlance , reminded him irish soldiers had as often fought for england as against her , more so , in fact .
the thoughts .
month ’ s mind : quinlan .
stephen : _nothung ! _ _ ( he lifts his ashplant high with both hands and smashes the chandelier .
bella : who pays for the lamp ?
and humanely his drie waie till he ( or she ) had ended , patient in his scythed car .
he mounted to the parapet again and gazed out over dublin bay , his fair oakpale hair stirring slightly .
avuncular ’ s got my tieiece .
you can make bacon of that .
— is that really a fact ?
there is a word throstle that expresses that .
john howard parnell translated a whiebishop quietly and his grey claw went up again to his forehead whereat it rested .
that door too sllt creaking , asking to be shut .
you once nobble that , congregation , and a buck joyrieto heaven becomes a back number .
to all whom it may concern schedule pursuant to statute showing return of number of mules and jennets exported from ballina .
i have never felt myself so much drawn to a man as you .
the pretty lips pouted awhiebut then she glanced up and broke out into a joyous little laugh which had in it all the freshness of a young may morning .
) _ dear old friends !
_ ( a paper with something written on it is handed into court . _ ) bloom : _ ( in court dress .
bloom : _ ( with sies semiflexed .
cartoons .
quarter past .
and later on at a propitious opportunity he purposed ( bloom did ) , without anyway prying into his private affairs on the _fools step in where angels_ principle , advising him to sever his connection with a certain budding practitioner who , he notie , was prone to disparage and even to a slight extent with some hilarious pretext when not present , deprecate him , or whatever you lieto call it which in bloom ’ s humble opinion threw a nasty sieight on that side of a person ’ s character , no pun intended .
just a question of custom shah of persia .
fietallwhieatted sandwichmen between monypeny ’ s corner and the slab where wolfe tone ’ s statue was not , eeled themselves turning h e l y ’ s and plodded back as they had come .
for you , please ?
i wish to christ he did !
no , no , mulligan !
he approached larry o ’ rourke ’ s .
unclaie money too .
he moved away , looking about him .
) _ this book tells you how to act with all descriptieparticulars .
) _ o , i have been a perfect pig .
wanted a dog to pass the tie
they drank cool stout .
and prosper loré ’ s huguenot name .
it comes when he is abandoned and challenges him reluctant and , as an apparition of hope and youth , holds him unresisting .
stephen : _ ( hands him all his coins .
— but wait , mrbloom said .
on an emiece , the centre of the earth , rie the fieldaltar of saint barbara .
easy now .
flapdoodle to feed fools on .
the last night pa was boosed he was standing on the landing there bawling out for his boots to go out to tunney ’ s for to boose more and he looked butty and short in his shirt .
a gnawing sorrow is there all the tie
turn now on .
i think it ’ s a .
wants it real bad .
his mother ’ s prostrate body the fiery columbanus in holy zeal bestrode .
he was alone .
he drew forth a handful of copper coins , nervously .
be back in a minute .
the house was still sitting , to be sure it was .
zoe !
i mean , wartsblood spreads warts , you said . virag : _ ( severely , his nose hardhumped , his sieeye winking .
were you in a funk ?
course .
it would not pan out somehow .
got a match on you ?
— you are late , he spoke hoarsely , eying her with a suspicious glare .
ah yes , the last tie
— yes , martin cunningham said , fingering his beard .
on the duke ’ s lawn , entreated by an english visitor , she declie to permit him to make and take away her photographic image ( objection not stated ) .
he turned to stphen and asked blandly : — is this the day for your monthly wash , kinch ?
their dog ambled about a bank of dwindling sand , trotting , sniffing on all sie .
does not see me .
paris rawly waking , crude sunlight on her lemon streets .
her blue scarf loose , laughing .
k <NUMBER> .
the face of william shakespeare , beardless , appears there , rigid in facial paralysis , crowned by the reflection of the reindeer antlered hatrack in the hall .
— it ’ s in the blood , mrbloom acceded at once .
for being so nie eh ?
a blind stripling stood tapping the curbstone with his slender cane .
hold me .
she gave her moist ( a lady ’ s ) hand to his firm clasp .
but i say : let my country die for me .
in america those things were continually happening .
some say they remember their past lie .
martin cunningham asked .
bless me , i am all of a wibbly wobbly .
liemary , queen of scots , something .
his head halted again for a moment at the top of the staircase , level with the roof : — do not mope over it all day , he said .
thick feet that woman has in the whiestockings .
are you of the unfortunate class ?
zoe : it was a commercial traveller married her and took her away with him .
he turned his face over a shoulder , rere regardant .
after ?
the truth , spit it out .
— knee , lenehan said .
the maid was in the garden .
diminished digits prove too titillating for frisky frumps
_ ( bloom holds up his right hand on which sparkles the koh i - noor diamond .
marble could giethe original , shoulders , back , all the symmetry , all the rest .
i suppose we can do so too .
weight or sieof it , something blacker than the dark .
his spindlelegs and sparrow feet are those of the tenor mario , prince of candia .
— the sense of beauty leads us astray , said beautifulinsadness best to ugling eglinton .
for forty years , he produced and distributed project gutenberg tm ebooks with only a loose network of volunteer support .
_ ( tom and sam bohee , coloured coons in whieduck suits , scarlet socks , upstarched sambo chokers and large scarlet asters in their buttonholes , leap out .
an incoming train clanked heavily above his head , coach after coach .
leopold bloom ellpodbomool molldopeloob bollopedoom old ollebo , m p what acrostic upon the abbreviation of his first name had he ( kieic poet ) sent to miss marion ( molly ) tweedy on the <NUMBER> february <NUMBER> ?
yes , i believe it is the same objectionable person .
where ’ s the sugar ?
) _ the pianola : though she ’ s a factory lass and wears no fancy clothes .
— do not you think his face is lieour saviour ?
proof of the pudding .
the false apparent parallelism of all perpendicular arms of all balances , proved true by construction .
love is the name ?
) _ sacred heart of mary , where were you at all at all ?
god they believe she is : or goddess .
corsets for men .
* * * a onelegged sailor crutched himself round macconnell ’ s corner , skirting rabaiotti ’ s ieream car , and jerked himself up eccles street .
ten shillings ?
— never better .
good pick me up .
he thumps the parapet .
bloom : _ ( plaintiey .
now .
why ?
wie his nose in curtain too .
mrwisdom hely j p my old chief joe cuffe .
curse seems to dog it .
cruel it seems .
— come in , come on , he wo not eat you , says the citie .
jewels diamonds flash better .
the necessity to counteract by impermanent sojourn the permanence of arrest .
why me ?
had the winner today till i tipped him a dead cert .
tap .
zoe : here .
and bloom letting on to be awfully deeply interested in nothing , a spie ’ s web in the corner behind the barrel , and the citie scowling after him and the old dog at his feet looking up to know who to bite and when .
must have been that morning in raymond terrace she was at the window watching the two dogs at it by the wall of the cease to do evil .
they wheeled flapping weakly .
eat drink and be merry .
) _ my boys will be no end charmed to see you so ladylie the colonel , above all , when they come here the night before the wedding to fondle my new attraction in gilded heels .
must i tiptouch it with my nails ?
rhubarb tart with lieal fillings , rich fruit interior .
bloom : i have forgotten for the moment .
— i know you did , dilly answered .
what is the meaning of that other world .
— and how is dick , the solid man ?
do not unlink or detach or remove the full project gutenberg tm liese terms from this work , or any fie containing a part of this work or any other work associated with project gutenberg tm .
bowsing nowt but claretwie
i only meant a square party , a mie marriage mingling of our different little conjugials .
i mean of course it ’ s all pom pom pom very much what they call _da capo . _ stll you can hear .
crown of thorns and cross .
myles crawford blew his first puff violently towards the ceiling .
jenny lind soup : stock , sage , raw eggs , half pint of cream .
— she ’ s making for bullock harbour .
an optical illusion .
) _ profssor bloom is a finished example of the new womanly man .
the water rate , mrboylan .
gie a guarantee equal to the sum sought , the support , by deed of gift and transfer vouchers during donor ’ s lieieor by bequest after donor ’ s painless extinction , of emiet financiers ( blum pasha , rothschild , guggenheim , hirsch , montefiore , morgan , rockefeller ) possessing fortunes in <NUMBER> figures , amassed during a successful lie and joining capital with opportunity the thing requie was done .
between the curtains profssor maginni inserts a leg on the toepoint of which spins a silk hat .
enough .
giddy elijah .
mrs thornton : _ ( in nursetender ’ s gown .
j j o ’ molloy : a daniel did i say ?
dignam ( son ) , bernard corrigan ( brother in - law ) , jno .
there he goes .
that ruffian , that sham squie with his violet gloves gave him away .
mulligan said , glancing at her .
cissy said thanks and came back with her tongue out and said uncle said his waterworks were out of order .
to be printed and bound at the driddrum press by two designing females .
those lovely curtains .
— amen !
kilkenny people ? _ to be sure .
bloom : _ ( bravely .
round their shores fieshadows black of cedargroves .
bloom was talking and talking with john wyse and he quieexcie with his dunducketymudcoloured mug on him and his old plumeyes rolling about .
p j kavanagh , c s
declie poor chap .
fieyoung children .
) _ god help your head , he knows more than you have forgotten .
if i had land under my feet .
) _ after the parlour mystery games and the crackers from the tree we sat on the staircase ottoman .
hence those snores .
i am not joking , kinch .
his hand took his hat from the peg over his initialled heavy overcoat and his lost property offiesecondhand waterproof .
baraabum !
_sietium ! _ get a spurt on .
creation from nothing and miracles and a personal god .
the nursingwoman answered him and said that that woman was in throes now full three days and that it would be a hard birth unneth to bear but that now in a little it would be .
stphen laughed .
i hear the voieof nathan who left his father to die of grief and miey in my arms , who left the house of his father and left the god of his father .
he turned from the morning noie of the quaysieand walked through liestreet .
cried the traveller who had not spoken , a lusty trencherman by his aspect .
_ ( george r mesias , bloom ’ s tailor , appears , a tailor ’ s goose under his arm , presenting a bill .
— ben machree , said mrdedalus , clapping ben ’ s fat back shoulderblade .
i gall his kie
the request being complied with he clawed them up with a scrape .
— that the lay you are on now ?
mrs breen : _ ( gushingly .
if judas go forth tonight it is to judas his steps will tend . _ every lieis many days , day after day .
hissss .
laughing again , he brought the mirror away from stphen ’ s peering eyes .
the voieof the mournful chanter called to dolorous prayer .
_fun on the bristol_ .
that worthy , however , was busily engaged in collecting round the .
a bit nervy .
i am just looking at them : well pared .
i never borrowed a shilling in my lie_ can you feel that ?
come here till i tell you .
lot of ground he must cover in the day .
after liquids came solids .
childish devie
come on , ned .
ashes to ashes .
— find out , miss douce retorted , leaving her spyingpoint .
— ay , he said , sighing .
a lore of drugs .
the phosphorescence , that bluey greeny .
hardy annuals he presents her with .
he knows it well too .
he took off his silk hat and , blowing out impatiently his bushy moustache , welshcombed his hair with raking fingers .
she put the comether on him , sweet and twentysix .
— poor little thing , mrdedalus said .
) _ major tweedy : _ ( growls gruffly .
in the countinghouse ?
tap .
) _ zoe : talk away till you are black in the face .
jesus , he took the value of it out of him , i promise you .
shoe trick .
instance enthusiasts .
particularly nieold party for a cup of tea .
cigar now and then .
) _ liar !
he heard more faintly that that they heard , each for herself alone , then each for other , hearing the plash of waves , loudly , a siet roar .
) _ i would not hurt your feelings for the world but there ’ s a man of brawn in possession there .
irish homestead . _ — i will try , stphen said , and let you know tomorrow .
— immense , martin cunningham said pompously .
must have felt it .
and the bloody dog woke up and let a growl .
liliata rutilantium .
mercy of god the sun was in his eyes or he had have left him for dead .
crème de la crème_ .
she half smie at him wanly , a sweet forgiving smie a smiethat verged on tears , and then they parted .
father conmee was very glad to see the wieof mrdavid sheehy mp
nose whielattened against the pane .
bloom : all these people .
gradually changes your character .
folly .
a plagiarist .
the impression made by his words was immediate but shortlie .
year before i was born that was : sixtyfie
bloom : mie races and mie marriage .
moving through the air high spars of a threemaster , her sails braie up on the crosstrees , homing , upstream , sietly moving , a siet ship .
_omnis caro ad te veniet_ .
hurry .
red murray ’ s long shears slie out the advertieent from the newspaper in four clean strokes .
by the provost ’ s wall came jauntily blazes boylan , stepping in tan shoes and socks with skyblue clocks to the refrain of _my girl ’ s a yorkshire girl . _ blazes boylan presented to the leaders ’ skyblue frontlets and high action a skyblue tie , a wierimmed straw hat at a rakish angle and a suit of indigo serge .
slowly , note by note , oriental music is played .
what did you say that for ?
they were there gathered together without distinction of social class ( and a most edifying spectacle it was to see ) in that simple fane besiethe waves , after the storms of this weary world , kneeling before the feet of the immaculate , reciting the litany of our lady of loreto , beseeching her to intercede for them , the old familiar words , holy mary , holy virgin of virgins .
stphen sat down .
_and let our crooked smokes . _ noble words coming .
town traveller .
he creaked to and fro , tiptoing up nearer heaven by the altitude of a chopie and , covered by the noieof outgoing , said low : — is it your view , then , that she was not faithful to the poet ?
angels much prostitutes lieand holy apostles big damn ruffians .
o sweety all your little girlwhieup i saw dirty bracegirdle made me do love sticky we two naughty grace darling she him half past the bed met him piehoses frillies for raoul de perfume your wieblack hair heave under embon _señorita_ young eyes mulvey plump bubs me breadvan winkle red slippers she rusty sleep wander years of dreams return tail end agendath swoony lovey showed me her next year in drawers return next in her next her next .
never find out .
quick !
— good christ !
ceasing , he began to shave with care .
huguenot churchyard near there .
) _ lenehan : ho !
our .
it ’ s so french .
_ ( a cannonshot .
mrbloom walked on again easily , seeing ahead of him in sunlight the tight skullpiece , the dangling stickumbrelladustcoat .
that horsepoliean the day joe chamberlain was gie his degree in trinity he got a run for his money .
by knocking his sconce against them , sure .
bloom assented covertly to stphen ’ s rectification of the anachronism involved in assigning the date of the conversion of the irish nation to christianity from druidism by patrick son of calpornus , son of potitus , son of odyssus , sent by pope celestiei in the year <NUMBER> in the reign of leary to the year <NUMBER> or thereabouts in the reign of cormac macart ( † <NUMBER> ad ) , suffocated by imperfect deglutition of aliet at sletty and interred at rossnaree .
flushed less , still less , goldenly paled .
green chartreuse .
persecuted .
got up wrong sieof the bed .
— yes , by jove , mrdedalus said .
full throb .
the foundation ' s busies offieis located at <NUMBER> north <NUMBER> west , salt lake city , ut <NUMBER> , ( 801 ) <NUMBER> - 187 .
that fellow ramming a knieul of cabbage down as if his liedepended on it .
he climbed over the sedge and eely oarweeds and sat on a stool of rock , resting his ashplant in a grie
— now , my miss , he said .
not see .
) _ jesus !
bronze by gold , miss kennedy ’ s head by miss douce ’ s head , appeared above the crossblind of the ormond hotel .
folded away in the memory of nature with her toys .
gaptoothed kathleen , her four beautiful green fields , the stranger in her house .
troops deploy .
flicker , flicker : the laceflare of her hat in the sun : flicker , flick .
_ ( she rushes out .
because at the critical turningpoint of human existence he desie to amend many social conditions , the product of ieuality and avarieand international animosity .
useful hints to the married .
_that beetles o ’ er his base into the sea , _ is not it ?
and the old major , partial to his drop of spirits .
must be strange not to see her .
— what links them in nature ?
but hey , presto , the mirror is breathed on and the young knighterrant recedes , shries , dwindles to a tiny speck within the mist .
i can watch it flow past from here .
crusted toenails too .
silly man !
) _ this is a lonehand fight .
shoulder to the wheel .
admiring .
hawhorn .
well : if the father who has not a son be not a father can the son who has not a father be a son ?
_ ( she takes his hand .
i feel so sad today .
nearly over .
is it any good ?
o
curse me for a fool that did not buy that lot craig and gardner told me about .
to what inconsequent polysyllabic question of his host did the guest return a monosyllabic negatieanswer ?
she said .
bowel trouble .
stictly confietial .
a polished period j j o ’ molloy resumed , moulding his words : — he said of it : _that stony effigy in frozen music , horned and terrible , of the human form divie that eternal symbol of wisdom and of prophecy which , if aught that the imagination or the hand of sculptor has wrought in marble of soultransfigured and of soultransfiguring deserves to lie deserves to lie_ his slim hand with a wave graced echo and fall .
is it some paradox ?
no , say i !
he ’ s stinking with money and thinks you are not a gentleman .
his lids came down on the lower rims of his irie .
_ ( he points .
shannon and all the boatclub swells never took his eyes off her .
do you think he has genius really ?
better let him forget .
pain is far .
by his body ’ s known weight of eleven stone and four pounds in avoirdupois measure , as certified by the graduated machiefor periodical selfweighing in the premie of francis froedman , pharmaceutical chemist of <NUMBER> frederick street , north , on the last feast of the ascension , to wit , the twelfth day of may of the bissextieyear one thousand niehundred and four of the christian era ( jewish era fiethousand six hundred and sixtyfour , mohammadan era one thousand three hundred and twentytwo ) , golden number <NUMBER> , epact <NUMBER> , solar cycle <NUMBER> , dominical letters c b , roman indiction <NUMBER> , julian period <NUMBER> , mcmiv
why in ?
who distilled first ?
them .
— liethat , mrbloom said , crossing his forefingers at the top .
the windscreen of that motorcar in the sun there .
a light wind passed his brow , fanning softly his fair uncombed hair and stirring silver points of anxiety in his eyes .
well , of course , where there ’ s money going there ’ s always someone to pick it up .
save her .
to aid gentleman in lieary work .
allbright he falls , proud lightning of the intellect , _lucie , dico , qui nescit occasum_ .
yes .
— four shining sovereigns , buck mulligan cried with delight .
handsome is and handsome does .
polygamy .
women press forward to touch the hem of bloom ’ s robe .
— good morning , sir , stphen said , putting the sheets in his pocket .
— i am coming , stphen said , turning .
muskrat .
his thinsocked ankles were tickled by the stubble of clongowes field .
there ’ s nothing smutty in it .
’ slie i will be round with you .
no one about .
_ ( almidano artifoni holds out a batonroll of music with vigorous moustachework .
a flying sunny smierayed in his loose features .
who ’ s astanding this here do ?
) _ the gentleman . ten shillings . paying for the three . allow me a moment . this gentleman pays separate . who ’ s touching it ? .
cancer did it , not i destiny .
all a prejudie
by rose , by satiny bosom , by the fondling hand , by slops , by empties , by popped corks , greeting in going , past eyes and maiehair , bronze and faint gold in deepseashadow , went bloom , soft bloom , i feel so lonely bloom .
no more pain .
lynch : _ ( points .
you can do me a favour , mrdedalus , with some of your lieary friends .
yes , there ’ s the light in the priest ’ s house .
how much cost ?
mgr m ’ manus , v g ; the rev .
world without end .
viear hill .
— is he a widower ?
stephen : _ ( amiably .
canv . )
eventually , however , both their eyes met and as soon as it began to dawn on him that the other was endeavouring to help himself to the thing he involuntarily determie to help him himself and so he accordingly took hold of the neck of the mediumsie glass recipient which contaie the fluid sought after and made a capacious hole in it by pouring a lot of it out with , also at the same tie however , a consieable degree of attentieess in order not to upset any of the beer that was in it about the place .
— for a few days tell him , father cowley said anxiously .
— my twelfth rib is gone , he cried .
snip off with horsehair under the denned neck .
the walls are tapestried with a paper of yewfronds and clear glades .
funeral of the late mrpatrick dignam .
— he ’ s a hero , he said simply .
the porter hoisted the valieup on the well .
the standard of zion is hoisted .
_ ( the aurora borealis of the torchlight procession leaps .
— milk for the pussens , he said .
when coopfattened their lies reach an elephantiesie
— what are you singing ?
through the barbacans the shafts of light are moving ever , slowly ever as my feet are sinking , creeping duskward over the dial floor .
there he is : royal dublin fusiliers .
met him piehoses .
you might go farther and fare worse .
i forgot to tell him that one about the earl of kildare after he set fieto cashel cathedral .
zoe : _ ( lightly .
besieher mirage of datepalms a handsome woman in turkish costume stands before him .
) _ the squeak is out .
bloom : _ ( in an oatmeal sporting suit , a sprig of woodbiein the lapel , tony buff shirt , shepherd ’ s plaid saint andrew ’ s cross scarftie , white spats , fawn dustcoat on his arm , tawny red brogues , fieldglasses in bandolier and a grey billycock hat .
liethe fat boy in pickwick he wants to make our flesh creep .
try a bit .
where was that ?
holy ginger , it ’ s kicking and coughing up and down in her guts already !
perfiealbion ! _ he said and then lifted he in his rude great brawny strengthy hands the medher of dark strong foamy ale and , uttering his tribal slogan _lamh dearg abu_ , he drank to the undoing of his foes , a race of mighty valorous heroes , rulers of the waves , who sit on thrones of alabaster siet as the deathless gods .
reflect , ponder , excogitate , reply .
the world is before you .
got the shove , all of them .
want a cool head .
that young doctor o ’ hare i notie her brushing his coat .
and the odds were twenty to nil there was really no secret about it at all .
her words rang out crystalclear , more musical than the cooing of the ringdove , but they cut the siece icily .
they passed the main entrance of the great northern railway station , the starting point for belfast , where of course all traffic was suspended at that late hour and passing the backdoor of the morgue ( a not very enticing locality , not to say gruesome to a degree , more especially at night ) ultimately gaie the dock tavern and in due course turned into stre street , famous for its c division poliestation .
— what ’ s the best news ?
clapclap .
he said very softly .
— you do not grasp my point , says bloom .
the cup that cheers but not ieriates , as the old saying has it .
the gaelic league wants something in irish .
got big then .
then it fetched up three coins from his trousers ’ pocket and laid them on the rubber prickles .
amid tense expectation the portobello bruie was being counted out when bennett ’ s second ole pfotts wettstein threw in the towel and the santry boy was declared victor to the frenzied cheers of the public who broke through the ringropes and fairly mobbed him with delight .
information about the project gutenberg lieary archiefoundation the project gutenberg lieary archiefoundation is a non profit <NUMBER> ( c ) ( 3 ) educational corporation organie under the laws of the state of mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the internal revnue servie
— no , sir .
sensitieplants .
never again .
hands felt for the opulent .
o ’ brien .
you do not say so ?
might be false name however liemy name and the address dolphings barn a blind .
no one here : goulding and i
this therefore was the reason why the still comparatiey young though dissolute man who now addressed stphen was spoken of by some with facetious proclivities as lord john corley .
all his brains are in the nape of his neck , simon dedalus says .
agenbieof inwit : remorse of conscience .
josssticks burning .
— and here comes the sham squiehimself !
— a recently discovered fragment of cieo , professor machugh answered with pomp of tone .
see this .
begins to feel cold and clammy .
tenors get wom .
formless spiritual .
just for a few cuckoo cuckoo cuckoo .
peter pie pecked a peck of pick of peck of pickled pepper .
stphen fetched the loaf and the pot of honey and the buttercooler from the locker .
) _ bella : you will know me the next tie
timothy harrington , late thrielord mayor of dublin , imposing in mayoral scarlet , gold chain and whiesilk tie , confers with councillor lorcan sherlock , _ locum tenens .
the carriage moved on through the drove .
wait awhie . we are on the right lay , bob , believe you me .
in cups of rocks it slops : flop , slop , slap : bounded in barrels .
to those who create themselves wits at the cost of feminiedelicacy ( a habit of mind which he never did hold with ) to them he would concede neither to bear the name nor to herit the tradition of a proper breeding : whiefor such that , having lost all forbearance , can lose no more , there remaie the sharp antidote of experience to cause their insolency to beat a precipitate and inglorious retreat .
two for a penny !
they cook in soda .
their eyes knew their years of wandering and , patient , knew the dishonours of their flesh .
did i pull the chain ?
relinquishing his symposiarchal right to the moustache cup of imitation crown derby presented to him by his only daughter , milliet ( milly ) , he substituted a cup ietical with that of his guest and served extraordinarily to his guest and , in reduced measure , to himself the viscous cream ordinarily reserved for the breakfast of his wiemarion ( molly ) .
where ’ s my hat .
it was a historic and a hefty battle when myler and percy were scheduled to don the gloves for the purse of fifty sovereigns .
eat or be eaten .
day by day : night by night : lifted , flooded and let fall .
equanimity ?
now am i going to tram it out all the way and then catch him out perhaps .
mrmiriam dandrade that sold me her old wraps and black underclothes in the shelbourne hotel .
it ’ s so hard to find one who .
look at them .
sister ?
what ? .
— _per vias rectas_ , mrdeasy said firmly , was his motto .
rule the world today .
she said .
ten shillings .
a mourning coach .
what are they ?
instance he ’ s playing now .
) _ spoke to me .
— a pity it did not keep up fie martin cunningham said .
— how now , fellow ?
) _ holy smoke !
if you just follow the atten . or , please allow me .
she said .
nature , we may rest assured , has her own good and cogent reasons for whatever she does and in all probability such deaths are due to some law of anticipation by which organisms in which morbous germs have taken up their resiece ( modern science has conclusiey shown that only the plasmic substance can be said to be immortal ) tend to disappear at an increasingly earlier stage of development , an arrangement which , though productieof pain to some of our feelings ( notably the maternal ) , is nevertheless , some of us think , in the long run beneficial to the race in general in securing thereby the survival of the fittest .
) _ she has it , she got it , wherever she put it , the leg of the duck .
— that is oratory , the professor said uncontradicted .
i must answer .
i am parched .
’ tis , sure .
everyone according to his needs or everyone according to his deeds .
and past the sailors ’ home .
come , come , says mrvincent , plain dealing .
and now his strongroom for the gold .
molly great dab at seeing anyone looking .
well , now !
twentyeight it is .
ned lambert said softly , clasping hands .
he holds my follies hostage .
trousers .
off an inward bound tram stepped the reverend nicholas dudley c c of saint agatha ’ s church , north william street , on to newcomen bridge .
his liewas rich .
— will you wriethe address , sir ?
girlgold she read and did not glance .
he checked his tale a moment but broke out in a wheezy laugh .
) _ he insulted my lady friend .
_ ( they pass .
second watch : night , mrkelleher .
they wheeled , flapping .
come , be seated , both .
they have the diesions of your other features , that ’ s all .
got up to kill : on eighteen bob a week .
— which of the two , stphen asked , would have banished me from his commonwealth ?
besie they say if the flower withers she wears she ’ s a flirt .
he walks , runs , zigzags , gallops , lugs laid back .
petals too tie to .
boody asked .
remember .
explain the swansong too wherein he has commended her to posterity .
a monkey puzzle rocket burst , spluttering in darting crackles .
seeing that the ruse worked and the coast was clear they left the shelter or shanty together and the _élie society of oilskin and company whom nothing short of an earthquake would move out of their _dolce far niente_ .
— a learner rather , stphen said .
the kisses , winging from their bowers , fly about him , twittering , warbling , cooing .
not , he parenthesie , that for the sake of filthy lucre he need necessarily embrace the lyric platform as a walk in liefor any lengthy space of tie
bore this funeral affair .
bronze whieess .
yes .
a strip of torn envelope peeped from under the dimpled pillow .
tara : bom bom bom .
— i am coming , buck mulligan answered .
lenehan came forward .
taim in mo shagart_ .
stephen : _ ( hands bella a coin .
stings .
— well , that ’ s a point , says bloom , for the wies admies .
he was too young to understand .
he halted .
) _ i am doing good to others .
stephen : _ ( laughs emptily .
she regards it and bloom with dumb moist lips .
unfortunate creature !
u p : up .
the gardens of alameda knew her step : the garths of olie knew and bowed .
_ ( gaudy dollwomen loll in the lighted doorways , in window embrasures , smoking birdseye cigarettes .
the face of a streetwalker glazed and haggard under a black straw hat peered askew round the door of the shelter palpably reconnoitring on her own with the object of bringing more grist to her mill .
shakespeare ’ s _works_ ( dark crimson morocco , goldtooled ) .
the void awaits surely all them that weave the wind : a menace , a disarming and a worsting from those embattled angels of the church , michael ’ s host , who defend her ever in the hour of conflict with their lances and their shields .
because the poor animals suffer and experts say and the best known remedy that does not cause pain to the animal and on the sore spot administer gently .
postoffienear reuben j ’ s one and eightpence too .
she put on niepounds after weaning .
against the dark wall a figure appears slowly , a fairy boy of eleven , a changeling , kidnapped , dressed in an eton suit with glass shoes and a little bronze helmet , holding a book in his hand .
bloom : not liey .
the year the missus was there . lenehan linked his arm warmly .
tinge of purple .
what ?
siece with a yawn or two accompanied this thrilling announcement .
you are liesomeone i knew once .
first watch : what do you tax him with ?
creating the works from print editions not protected by us copyright law means that no one owns a unie sttes copyright in these works , so the foundation ( and you ! )
paddy dignam : bloom , i am paddy dignam ’ s spirit .
out of it out of it .
( the house rie .
— we know those canters , says he , preaching and picking your pocket .
i saw .
on the hands down !
woodshadows floated sietly by through the morning peace from the stairhead seaward where he gazed .
what prospect of what phenomena inclie him to remain ?
bloom : _ ( looks downwards and perceie her unfastened bootlace .
their butteries and larders .
) _ all insanity .
what did those tinkers in the city hall at their caucus meeting decide about the irish language ?
that must be why the women go after them .
pflaap !
at the dolphin they halted to allow the ambulance car to gallop past them for jervis street .
met him piehoses .
for those words , stphen : love ’ s bitter mystery .
to which particular boosing shed . ?
just look through it .
just had a wash and brushup .
— i wo not mention any names , says alf .
open .
the collapse which bloom ascrie to gastric inanition and certain chemical compounds of varying degrees of adulteration and alcoholic strength , accelerated by mental exertion and the velocity of rapid circular motion in a relaxing atmosphere , stphen attributed to the reapparition of a matutinal cloud ( perceie by both from two different points of observation sandycove and dublin ) at first no bigger than a woman ’ s hand .
it is not perchance a french compliet ?
that haunting sense kind of drew you .
poor old professor goodwin .
miehost came forth at the summons , girding him with his tabard .
he strolled .
— what key ?
or the _lily of killarney_ ?
wind their way through mie of omnivorous forest to sucksucculent her breast dry .
petticoats for molly .
stphen put the hat on his head .
but here is the matter now .
saucebox .
a scared calf ’ s face gilded with marmalade .
satisfaction at the ubiquity in eastern and western terrestrial hemispheres , in all habitable lands and islands explored or unexplored ( the land of the midnight sun , the islands of the blessed , the isles of greece , the land of promie , of adipose anterior and posterior female hemispheres , redolent of milk and honey and of excretory sanguieand seminal warmth , reminiscent of secular families of curves of amplitude , insusceptible of moods of impression or of contrarieties of expression , expressieof mute immutable mature animality .
there was a fellow i knew once in barcelona , queer fellow , used to call it his postprandial .
victory of outsie _throwaway_ recalls derby of ’ 92 when capt .
even that brute today .
jingle jaunty .
_the secret history of the court of charles ii_ ( red cloth , tooled binding ) .
pennyweight of powder in a skull .
the apple of discord was a certain castle of sand which master jacky had built and master tommy would have it right go wrong that it was to be archieturally improved by a frontdoor like the martello tower had .
beggar somewhere .
worst of all at night mrduggan told me in the city arms .
the walk .
fiedashing young nobleman .
) _ did you hear my brain go snap ?
yes , he would certainly call .
what perfume does your wie
seymour bushe got him off .
it ’ s all right .
better wrieit here .
the cords of all link back , strandentwining cable of all flesh .
he walked on past bolton ’ s westmoreland house .
— but this prying into the family lieof a great man , russell began impatiently .
where now ?
put beurla on it , littlejohn .
somewhere ) and the fictitious addressee of the missiewhich made him nourish some suspicions of our friend ’ s _bona fie_ nevertheless it reminded him in a way of a longcherished plan he meant to one day realiesome wednesday or saturday of travelling to london _via_ long sea not to say that he had ever travelled extensiey to any great extent but he was at heart a born adventurer though by a trick of fate he had consistently remaie a landlubber except you call going to holyhead which was his longest .
’ tis the last rose of summer dollard left bloom felt wind wound round insie
alleluia .
the wearer of the crown under the porch of the general post offieshoeblacks called and polished .
the image of a solitary ( ipsorelatie mutable ( aliorelatie man .
_ ( he drags kitty away .
stll to cultivate the acquaintance of someone of no uncommon calibre who could proviefood for reflection would amply repay any small .
he ’ s no more dead than you are .
says bloom .
) _ not that i wish it for you .
bothered , he wanted power and cie .
— mark my words , mrdedalus , he said .
she sighs .
yea , on the word of a bloom , ye shall ere long enter into the golden city which is to be , the new bloomusalem in the nova hienia of the future .
_ ( lieutenant myers of the dublin fiebrigade by general request sets fieto bloom .
— bad cess to her big face !
) _ messiah !
) _ the bells : heigho !
they always know .
t caulfield irwin .
occasionally he removed from his lips the traces of food by means of a lacerated envelope or other accessible fragment of paper .
stphen fumbles in his pocket and , taking out a banknote by its corner , hands it to her .
she bows her old head to a voice that speaks to her loudly , her bonesetter , her mediciean : me she slights .
he reads .
firstly , oscillation between events of imperial and of local interest , the anticipated diamond jubie of queen victoria ( born <NUMBER> , acceded <NUMBER> ) and the posticipated opening of the new municipal fish market : secondly , apprehension of opposition from extreme circles on the questions of the respectievisits of their royal highnesses the duke and duchess of york ( real ) and of his majesty king brian boru ( imaginary ) : thirdly , a conflict between professional etiquette and professional emulation concerning the recent erections of the grand lyric hall on burgh quay and the theatre royal in hawkins street : fourthly , distraction resultant from compassion for nelly bouverist ’ s non intellectual , non political , non topical expression of countenance and concupiscence caused by nelly bouverist ’ s revelations of white articles of non intellectual , non political , non topical underclothing whieshe ( nelly bouverist ) was in the articles : fifthly , the difficulties of the selection of appropriate music and humorous allusions from _everybody ’ s book of jokes_ ( 10 pages and a laugh in every one ) : sixthly , the rhymes , homophonous and cacophonous , associated with the names of the new lord mayor , daniel tallon , the new high sheriff , thomas pieand the new solicitorgeneral , dunbar plunket barton .
it ’ s all right .
the mocker is never taken seriously when he is most serious .
but a step in the requie dietion it was beyond yea or nay and both monetarily and mentally it contaie no reflection on his dignity in the smallest and it often turned in uncommonly handy to be handed a cheque at a muchneeded moment when every little helped .
i am the best o ’ cook .
what for that , says mrdixon , but before he came over farmer nicholas that was a eunuch had him properly gelded by a college of doctors who were no better off than himself .
there was a lot of talk about those sunspots when we were in lombard street west .
the eastern seas .
dilly asked .
he pleaded over returning phrases of avowal .
woa !
— some , dilly said .
remember wriegreek ees .
it will come as a surprieto his grace .
and the fruit on top .
mrw bass ’ s _sceptre_ <NUMBER> .
ay , and rinse the seven of them well , mind , or lap it up like champagne .
the oval equine faces , temple , buck mulligan , foxy campbell , lanternjaws .
warwickshiejesuits are tried and we have a porter ’ s theory of equivocation .
lieus again .
full of his son .
and richie goulding drank his power and leopold bloom his cie drank , lidwell his guinness , second gentleman said they would partake of two more tankards if she did not mind .
) _ i love the danger .
delirium all you hid all your lie
athlone , mullingar , moyvalley , i could make a walking tour to see milly by the canal .
a dog barks in the distance .
mrlenehan , yes .
_ ( she sings .
tanks you .
i will .
they could : and watch it all the way down , swallow a pin sometie come out of the ribs years after , tour round the body changing biliary duct spleen squirting lie gastric juiecoils of intestie liepie .
bloom : you mean _photo bits ? _ the nymph : i do .
night hours then : black with daggers and eyemasks .
private carr : who wants your bleeding money ?
health all !
hook it quick .
or the other story , beast with two backs ?
royal dublin fusiliers .
he ambles near with disgruntled hindquarters .
stll if he works that paragraph .
he halted on sir john gray ’ s pavement island and peered aloft at nelson through the meshes of his wry smie
gallaher .
weighing them up perhaps to see which will go next .
not all there , in fact .
come and i will peel off .
zoe : _ ( fanning herself with the grate fan .
have you got that ?
wavewhiewedded words shimmering on the dim tie
from the top spur he slie down .
it represents a partially nude señorita , frail and lovely ( his wie as he solemnly assured me , taken by him from nature ) , practising illicit intercourse with a muscular torero , evietly a blackguard .
meanwhiethe skill and patience of the physician had brought about a happy _accouchement . _ it had been a weary weary whieboth for patient and doctor .
out on the rampage all night .
devil a sweet fear !
makes it more aristocratic than for example if he drank what they are used to guinness ’ s porter or some temperance beverage wheatley ’ s dublin hop bitters or cantrell and cochrane ’ s ginger ale ( aromatic ) .
of what did the duumvirate delieate during their itieary ?
had the tieof their lie . _ — mustard , sir ?
says the citie .
would he understand ?
it must not be !
lots must be killed in storms , telegraph wie .
little .
timothy canon gorman , p p ; the rev .
weathercocks .
hear , hear !
at all events he wound up by concluding , eschewing for the nonce hieound precedent , a cup of epps ’ s cocoa and a shakedown for the night plus the use of a rug or two and overcoat doubled into a pillow at least he would be in safe hands and as warm as a toast on a trie he faie to perceieany very vast amount of harm in that always with the proviso no rumpus of any sort was kicked up .
which seemed to the host to be the predominant qualities of his guest ?
— pass , friends , says he .
young stphen said indeed to his best remembrance they had but the one doxy between them and she of the stews to make shift with in delights amorous for lieran very high in those days and the custom of the country approved with it .
each is equally important .
abroad ?
a plate crashes : a woman screams : a child wails .
paradieand the peri .
i turned around to let him have the weight of my tongue when who should i see dodging along stny batter only joe hynes .
the lean old ones tougher .
— ay , says joe .
no , not alone .
and the others inclie to gieher an odd dig .
you abominable person !
you fenians forget some things .
o rocks !
bloom ’ s boys run amid the bystanders with branches of hawthorn and wrenbushes .
) _ sieble for threepence .
up to the present it has done so .
) _ the bawd : jewman ’ s melt !
caraway seed to carry away .
he turned and halted by the slanted bookcart .
he removed his collar , with contaie black necktie and collapsible stud , from his neck to a position on the left of the table .
you know i had a soft corner for you .
art thou there , truepenny ?
well , meet him .
but might happen sometie i do not think .
hurry .
the shopman ’ s uncombed grey head came out and his unshaven reddened face , coughing .
cure for a red nose .
haie said , beginning to point at stphen .
mrbloom pursued without flinching a hairsbreadth .
hello .
gazed in the coffin ( coffin ? )
regular hotbed of it lately .
then keep them waiting months for their fee .
there ?
he has the romantic saviour ’ s face with flowing locks , thin beard and moustache .
the lane is safer .
( he whirls round and round with dervish howls . )
our sister .
that will be worth seeing , faith .
stphen and zoe circle freely .
open your gates and sing hosanna . _ ( a rocket rushes up the sky and bursts .
the mansion of the kildares was in thomas court .
were their views on some points diegent ?
then tear asunder .
being a levelheaded individual who could give points to not a few in point of shrewd observation he also remarked on his very dilapidated hat and slouchy wearing apparel generally testifying to a chronic impecuniosity .
he lifted his brown straw hat , saluting paddy dignam .
it goes out .
a little then suffie , a jolting car , the mingling odours of the ladies ’ cloakroom and lavatory , the throng penned tight on the old royal stairs ( for they love crushes , instinct of the herd , and the dark sexsmelling theatre unbridles vie , even a prieist of their hosiery .
wonder if he pays rent to the corporation .
the door of ruttledge ’ s offiecreaked again .
marion : he ought to feel himself highly honoured .
a querulous newborn female infant crying to cause and lessen congestion .
bloom squeals , turning turtle .
sands and stones .
the blond girl ’ s slim fingers reckoned the fruits .
mere fact of music shows you are .
the anchor ’ s weighed .
three half ones , terry .
— well , they are still waiting for their redeemer , says martin .
kitty : _ ( from the sofa .
* * * _ — ma ! _ almidano artifoni said .
the metrical system of the canieoriginal , which recalls the intricate allieatieand isosyllabic rules of the welsh englyn , is infiniey more complicated but we believe our readers will agree that the spirit has been well caught .
a voiewithin the tower called loudly : — are you up there , mulligan ?
perhaps to levenston ’ s dancing academy piano .
the sister of the wieof the wild man of borneo has just come to town .
mrbloom at gaze saw a lithe young man , clad in mourning , a wiehat .
this meanwhiethis good sister stood by the door and begged them at the reverence of jesu our alther liege lord to leave their wassailing for there was above one quick with child , a gentle dame , whose time hied fast .
those are names .
) _ bleibtreustrasse , berlin , w <NUMBER> .
pay your money , take your choie
puking overboard to feed the herrings .
built on bread and onions .
— hoho , we will , ben dollard yodled jollily .
) _ woman , undoing with sweet pudor her belt of rushrope , offers her allmoist yoni to man ’ s lingam .
with this came up lenehan to the feet of the table to say how the letter was in that night ’ s gazette and he made a show to find it about him ( for he swore with an oath that he had been at pains about it ) but on stphen ’ s persuasion he gave over the search and was bidden to sit near by which he did mighty brisk .
little dog , die .
dogskull , dogsniff , eyes on the ground , moves to one great goal .
phthook ! )
but that dress , the green !
they took the liety of burying him this morning anyhow .
— antiquity mentions famous beds , second eglinton puckered , bedsmiling .
stiding past finn ’ s hotel cashel boyle o ’ connor fitzmaurietisdall farrell stared through a fierce eyeglass across the carriages at the head of mr m e solomons in the window of the austro hungarian vieonsulate .
hot mockturtle vapour and steam of newbaked jampuffs rolypoly poured out from harrison ’ s .
the professor , returning by way of the fie , swept his hand across stphen ’ s and mro ’ madden burke ’ s loose ties .
hear !
at once !
he lauded almost extravagantly my nether extremities , my swelling calves in silk hose drawn up to the limit , and eulogie glowingly my other hidden treasures in prieess lace which , he said , he could conjure up .
in sum an infiniegreat fall of rain and all refreshed and will much increase the harvest yet those in ken say after wind and water fieshall come for a prognostication of malachi ’ s almanac ( and i hear that mrrussell has done a prophetical charm of the same gist out of the hindustanish for his farmer ’ s gazette ) to have three things in all but this a mere fetch without bottom of reason for old crones and bairns yet sometie they are found in the right guess with their queerities no telling how .
what uniesal binomial denominations would be his as entity and nonentity ?
_ ( the crowd disperses slowly , muttering , down the lane .
— robbed , says he .
i asked him what he thought of the charge of pederasty brought against the bard .
four o ’ clock ’ s all ’ s well !
private carr : _ ( breaks loose .
if they do not see .
says i
she did not mind .
he waie till she had laid the card asieand curled herself back slowly with a snug sigh .
[ illustration ] how did the father of milliet receiethis second part ?
you are right , by god .
all fell to praising of it , each after his own fashion , though the same young blade held with his former view that another than her conjugial had been the man in the gap , a clerk in orders , a linkboy ( virtuous ) or an itieant vendor of articles needed in every household .
the flag is up on the playhouse by the banksie
have you _weekly freeman_ of <NUMBER> march ?
bloom follows and picks it up .
) _ she is right , our sister .
people could put up with being bitten by a wolf but what properly rie them was a biefrom a sheep .
the air feeds most .
_ ( the camel , lifting a foreleg , plucks from a tree a large mango fruit , offers it to his mistress , blinking , in his cloven hoof , then droops his head and , grunting , with uplifted neck , fumbles to kneel .
the caretaker moved away a few paces and put on his hat .
because the weight of the water , no , the weight of the body in the water is equal to the weight of the what ?
_ ( she claps her hands .
— will lift your glass with us .
bloom : on this day twenty years ago we overcame the hereditary enemy at ladysmith .
ah !
the blond girl glanced sieays at him , got up regardless , with his tie a bit crooked , blushing .
he stopped .
lady sylvester elmshade , mrbarbara lovebirch , mrpoll ash , mrholly hazeleyes , miss daphne bays , miss dorothy canebrake , mr clyde twelvetrees , mrrowan greene , mrhelen vieadding , miss virginia creeper , miss gladys beech , miss oliegarth , miss blanche maple , mrmaud mahogany , miss myra myrtle , miss priscilla elderflower , miss bee honeysuckle , miss grace poplar , miss o mimosa san , miss rachel cedarfrond , the misses lilian and viola lilac , miss timidity aspenall , mrkitty dewey mosse , miss may hawthorne , mrgloriana palme , mr liana forrest , mrarabella blackwood and mrnorma holyoake of oakholme regis graced the ceremony by their presence .
you fee mendancers on the riviera , i read .
— and there ’ s your latin quarter hat , he said .
come on .
circus horse walking in a ring .
quavering the chords strayed from the air , found it again , lost chord , and lost and found it , faltering .
— alas , stphen said .
at me .
he took the hilt of his ashplant , lunging with it softly , dallying still .
ay , says another , and so pampered was he that he would suffer nought to grow in all the land but green grass for himself ( for that was the only colour to his mind ) and there was a board put up on a hillock in the middle of the island with a printed notie saying : by the lord harry , green is the grass that grows on the ground .
he does not see my mourning .
they did right to put him up over a urinal : meeting of the waters .
— tell him go to hell , the editor said promptly .
signs of rain it is .
warts , bunions and pimples to make it worse .
joe brady and the rest of them .
fieguies a jugular .
in disoccupied moments she had more than once covered a sheet of paper with signs and hieroglyphics which she stated were greek and irish and hebrew characters .
frailty , thy name is _sceptre . _ so he went over to the biscuit tin bob doran left to see if there was anything he could lift on the nod , the old cur after him backing his luck with his mangy snout up .
he knows your old fellow .
rows of cast .
— heart as big as a lion , says ned .
— just another spasm , ned lambert said .
alderman robert o ’ reilly emptying the port into his soup before the flag fell .
they had a gay old tiewhieit lasted .
keep you on the run all day .
hold to the now , the here , through which all future plunges to the past .
the coffin they brought over was full of stones .
occasionally he ate without having previously removed his hat .
— good morning , he said , moving away .
friction of the position .
of ireland , the dalcassians , of hopes , conspiracies , of arthur griffith now , a e , pimander , good shepherd of men .
— doughy daw !
faut que jeunesse se passe .
because they want it themselves .
where did i put her letter after i read it in the bath ?
— the lord forgieme !
title : ulysses author : james joyce release date : december <NUMBER> , <NUMBER> [ ebook <HASHTAG> [ most recently updated : december <NUMBER> , <NUMBER> ] language : english character set encoding : utf - 8 produced by : col choat and david widger * start of the project gutenberg ebook ulysses * [ illustration ] ulysses by james joyce contents — i — [ <NUMBER> ] [ <NUMBER> ] [ <NUMBER> ] — ii — [ <NUMBER> ] [ <NUMBER> ] [ <NUMBER> ] [ <NUMBER> ] [ <NUMBER> ] [ <NUMBER> ] [ <NUMBER> ] [ <NUMBER> ] [ <NUMBER> ] [ <NUMBER> ] [ <NUMBER> ] [ <NUMBER> ] — iii — [ <NUMBER> ] [ <NUMBER> ] [ <NUMBER> ] — i — [ <NUMBER> ] sttely , plump buck mulligan came from the stairhead , bearing a bowl of lather on which a mirror and a razor lay crossed .
do you know what i am telling you ?
i will wring the bastard fucker ’ s bleeding blasted fucking windpie
pa is dead .
the curate served .
a thousand casualties .
— yes , ned lambert said , with the wies brother .
exit bloom — i am just running round to bachelor ’ s walk , mrbloom said , about this ad of keyes ’ s .
paddy leonard : what am i to do about my rates and taxes ?
kildare street club toff .
— charming !
he held the bowl aloft and intoned : — _introibo ad altare dei_ .
poor dignam , you know .
alacrity she served .
the maids of honour , miss larch conie and miss spruce conie , sisters of the brie wore very becoming costumes in the same tone , a dainty _motif_ of plume rose being worked into the pleats in a pinstrieand repeated capriciously in the jadegreen toques in the form of heron feathers of paletinted coral .
there ’ s nobody liehim after all .
dilly ’ s high shoulders and shabby dress .
hillyho !
by the hoky fiddle , thanks be to jesus those funny little chaps are not unanimous .
lucky it did not .
my eyes , i know , shone diviey as i watched captain slogger dennehy of the inniskillings win the final chukkar on his darling cob _centaur . _ this plebeian don juan observed me from behind a hackney car and sent me in double envelopes an obscene photograph , such as are sold after dark on paris boulevards , insulting to any lady .
that youthful illusion of thy strength was taken from thee — and in vain .
) _ whorusalaminyourhighhohhhh . _ ( the disc rasps gratingly against the needle .
bloom : _ ( in alderman ’ s gown and chain .
all the beef to the heels were in .
) _ not so loud my name .
tom rochford followed frowning , a plaining hand on his claret waistcoat .
j j o ’ molloy turned to stphen and said quietly and slowly : — one of the most polished periods i think i ever listened to in my life fell from the lips of seymour bushe .
so joe took up the letters .
— bravo !
project gutenberg is a registered trademark , and may not be used if you charge for an ebook , except by following the terms of the trademark liese , including paying royalties for use of the project gutenberg trademark .
and the citie and bloom having an argument about the point , the brothers sheares and wolfe tone beyond on arbour hill and robert emmet and die for your country , the tommy moore touch about sara curran and she ’ s far from the land .
she ran with long gandery strie it was a wonder she did not rip up her skirt at the siethat was too tight on her because there was a lot of the tomboy about cissy caffrey and she was a forward piece whenever she thought she had a good opportunity to show off and just because she was a good runner she ran liethat so that he could see all the end of her petticoat running and her skinny shanks up as far as possible .
i was young .
putting pieces of folded brown paper in the letterbox for her .
— i would go a step farther , mrbloom insinuated .
_ ( warbling .
again kennygiggles , stooping , her fair pinnacles of hair , stooping , her tortoienapecomb showed , spluttered out of her mouth her tea , choking in tea and laughter , coughing with choking , crying : — o greasy eyes !
mrbloom walked towards dawson street , his tongue brushing his teeth smooth .
howth settled for slumber , tie of long days , of yumyum rhododendrons ( he was old ) and felt gladly the night breeze lift , ruffle his fell of ferns .
mrbloom , quickbreathing , slowlier walking passed adam court .
but there was an infiniestore of mercy in those eyes , for him too a word of pardon even though he had erred and sinned and wandered .
reciethe second part ( minor ) of the legend .
low in dark middle earth .
you ought to see yourself !
everything speaks in its own way .
wonder how they explain it to the heathen chie .
those two sluts that night in the coombe , linked together in the rain .
maiehead insie
the jarvey joins in the mute pantomimic merriet nodding from the farther seat .
— because you do not save , mrdeasy said , pointing his finger .
omelette on the . stephen : _ ( mincingly .
good , better , best .
gently does it .
lub !
the carriage climbed more slowly the hill of rutland square .
then they trot you out some kind of a nondescript , would not know what to call her .
o , well , she has to lieliethe rest .
you crossed her last wish in death and yet you sulk with me because i do not whinge like some hie mute from lalouette ’ s .
he said in answer .
bella : _ ( her eyes hard with anger and cupidity , points .
) _ that weal there is an acciet .
_laurence bloomfield in ireland_ by william allingham ( second edition , green cloth , gilt trefoil design , previous owner ’ s name on recto of flyleaf erased ) .
was he here ?
who lie there ?
four omnipotent sovereigns .
hornblower : _ ( in ephod and huntingcap , announces .
the debaters were the keenest in the land , the theme they were engaged on the loftiest and most vital .
am i a father ?
he ’ s gone over to the lying in hospital they told me .
could buy one of those silk petticoats for molly , colour of her new garters .
the best plan clearly being to clear out , the remainder being plain sailing , he beckoned , whieprudently pocketing the photo , to the keeper of the shanty who did not seem to .
he asked .
— the milk , sir !
molly and mrfleming making the bed .
— god , is not he dreadful ?
_ ( he fie the manhole with a resolute stare .
serum and virus .
she bore his children and she laid pennies on his eyes to keep his eyelids closed when he lay on his deathbed .
he has revealed it in the sonnets where there is will in overplus .
lenehan gulped to go .
he turned into cumberland street and , going on some paces , halted in the lee of the station wall .
volunteers and financial support to provievolunteers with the assistance they need are critical to reaching project gutenberg tm ' s goals and ensuring that the project gutenberg tm collection will remain freely available for generations to come .
i shee you , shir .
cook and general , exc .
— bad luck to the jewman that made them , ben dollard said .
she must .
unhappy woman , she has been too long and too persistently denied her legitimate prerogatieto listen to his objurgations with any other feeling than the derision of the desperate .
the disk shot down the groove , wobbled a whie ceased and ogled them : six .
it would have served her just right if she had tripped up over something accietally on purpose with her high crooked french heels on her to make her look tall and got a fietumble .
miss puny little edy ’ s countenance fell to no slight extent and gerty could see by her looking as black as thunder that she was simply in a towering rage though she hid it , the little kinnatt , because that shaft had struck home for her petty jealousy and they both knew that she was something aloof , apart , in another sphere , that she was not of them and never would be and there was somebody else too that knew it and saw it so they could put that in their pieand smoke it .
oaths of a man roar , mutter , cease .
spud again the rheumatiz ?
she has the spanish type .
i asked that old fogey in boyd ’ s for something for my skin .
stphen reached back and took the milkjug from the locker .
by his elbow a delicate siamese conned a handbook of strategy .
the tear is bloody near your eye .
see the wieworld .
thereat laughed they all right jocundly only young stphen and sir leopold which never durst laugh too open by reason of a strange humour which he would not bewray and also for that he rued for her that bare whoso she might be or wheresoever .
says joe .
it was a peaceful day .
how are the secondhand breeks ?
— with dignam , says alf .
under the patronage of the late father mathew .
which preferably ?
sure he has a small bank balance somewhere , government sit .
) _ gold .
dr dixon : _ ( reads a bill of health .
bought the _irish field_ now .
magdalen asylum .
horn .
bantam lyons doubted an instant , leering : then thrust the outspread sheets back on mrbloom ’ s arms .
i am wrongfully accused .
zinfandel ’ s the favourie lord howard de walden ’ s , won at epsom .
could not he fly a bit higher than that , eh ?
a provisional failure to obtain renewal of an advertieent : to obtain a certain quantity of tea from thomas kernan ( agent for pulbrook , robertson and co , <NUMBER> dame steet , dublin , and <NUMBER> mincing lane , london e c ) : to certify the presence or absence of posterior rectal orifiein the case of hellenic female divinities : to obtain admission ( gratuitous or paid ) to the performance of _leah_ by mrbandmann palmer at the gaiety theatre , <NUMBER> , <NUMBER> , <NUMBER> , <NUMBER> south king street .
hot spirit of junie juiewarmed his vitals and his breath .
let him take me whenever he lie .
o just wait till i see molly !
all instinct liethe bird in drouth got water out of the end of a jar by throwing in pebbles .
it fills me full .
remembering thee , o sion .
chips , picking chips off rocky thumbnail , chips .
what did ignatius gallaher do ?
hiesos kristos , magician of the beautiful , the logos who suffers in us at every moment .
saw a pool near her foot .
bone them young so they metamspychosis .
brewery barge with export stout .
but there ’ s one thing he will never do .
night .
— to whom ?
— miaow !
number one swung lourdily her midwies bag , the other ’ s gamp poked in the beach .
miss bronze unbloused her neck .
— how is that ?
two letters and a card lay on the hallfloor .
today the bards must drink and junket .
whoa !
what the hell are you driving at ?
sparkling bronze azure eyed blazure ’ s skyblue bow and eyes .
and old .
she .
) _ i suggest that you will do the handsome thing .
a lieiein a night .
writing for the newspapers which is the readiest channel nowadays .
many small donations ( $ 1 to $ 5 , 0 ) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt status with the irs
that was that chap ’ s name .
he looked down intently into a stone crypt .
_ ( suspiciously .
— i doubt it , said stphen gravely .
_peccavi ! _ i have paid homage on that living altar where the back changes name .
— bosh !
stphen handed him the key .
) _ bello : _ ( with bobbed hair , purple gills , fat moustache rings round his shaven mouth , in mountaier ’ s puttees , green silverbuttoned coat , sport skirt and alpiehat with moorcock ’ s feather , his hands stuck deep in his breeches pockets , places his heel on her neck and grinds it in .
— getonouthat , you bloody old pedagogue !
that he now poie that it now throbbed .
came over last night .
he lies prone , his face to the sky , his hat rolling to the wall .
he broke off and lathered again lightly his farther cheek .
i know and i am some vibrator .
warily , malachi whispered , preserve a druid siece .
— three twelve , he said .
hot and cold in the same breath .
nightdress was never .
cut with grass or paper worst .
the strength it gie a man .
you must take the will for the deed .
vintage wiefor them , the year marked on a dusty bottle .
whiehorses with whiefrontlet plumes came round the rotunda corner , galloping .
he turned to stphen and asked in a fiepuzzled voie lifting his brows : — can you recall , brother , is mother grogan ’ s tea and water pot spoken of in the mabinogion or is it in the upanishads ?
father dien wants . — o , father dien !
she shouted in his ear the tidings .
serpents too are gluttons for woman ’ s milk .
in a suddenly changed tone he added : — to tell you the god ’ s truth i think you are right .
laughing witches in red cutty sarks riethrough the air on broomsticks .
there ’ s hair .
and we one hour and two hours and three hours in connery ’ s sitting civil waiting for pints apiece .
the calumet of peace he offered a cigarette to the professor and took one himself .
got fellows to stick them up or stick them up himself for that matter on the q . t . running in to loosen a button .
on the right ( smaller ) hob a blue enamelled saucepan : on the left ( larger ) hob a black iron kettle .
he halted near his daughter .
yes , it is true .
kino ’ s <NUMBER> / — trousers .
where ’ s the ten shillings i gave you on monday ?
so .
i should have said when he clapped on his topper .
again .
seems to see with his fingers .
he wore a pair of gaies the night that first we met .
that was why they thought the park murders of the invincibles was done by foreigners on account of them using knie .
the twilight hours advance from long landshadows , dispersed , lagging , languieed , their cheeks delicate with cipria and false faint bloom .
how do you know ?
) _ please accept .
stphen asked .
brummagem england was toppling already and her downfall would be ireland , her achilles heel , which he explaie to them about the vulnerable point of achilles , the greek hero , a point his auditors at once seie as he completely gripped their attention by showing the tendon referred to on his boot .
occult pimander of hermes trismegistos .
their wigs to show the grey matter .
corny kelleher fell into step at their sie
and what was it only one of the smutty yankee pictures terry borrows off of corny kelleher .
corny kelleher : sure it was behan our jarvey there that told me after we left the two commercials in mrcohen ’ s and i told him to pull up and got off to see .
suppose she was gone when he ?
— who ?
christmas turkeys and geese .
i want to show you the new beauty rock has for a bailiff .
shy , supping with the godless , he sneaks the cup .
wriedown all i said and tell tom , dick and harry i rose from the dead .
— thank you .
your funeral ’ s tomorrow whieyou are coming through the rye .
they want special dishes to pretend they are .
he took it to heart , pie away .
dublings priefavourie
and it ’ s extremely curious the smell .
let out to graze .
lotty clarke , flaxenhaie , i saw at her night toiete through illclosed curtains with poor papa ’ s operaglasses : the wanton ate grass wildly .
u p : up .
well has it been said that whosoever prays to her with faith and constancy can never be lost or cast away : and fitly is she too a haven of refuge for the afflicted because of the seven dolours which transpierced her own heart .
learn anything if taken young .
wisdom whieyou wait .
that ’ s the secret of it .
and now , why ?
_ ( she seie bloom ’ s coattail .
) _ alexander j dowie : _ ( violently .
lenehan extended his hands in protest .
a noieess attendant setting open the door but slightly made him a noieess beck .
gob , he had adorn a sweepingbrush , so he would , if he only had a nurse ’ s apron on him .
at duke lane a ravenous terrier choked up a sick knuckly cud on the cobblestones and lapped it with new zest .
all .
fellow sharpening knieand fork to eat all before him , old chap picking his tootles .
lenehan promptly struck a match for them and lit their cigarettes in turn .
weighs on his mind .
— _all is lost now_ .
and father conmee smie and saluted .
it was one of his axioms that similar meditations or the automatic relation to himself of a narratieconcerning himself or tranquil recollection of the past when practie habitually before retiring for the night alleviated fatigue and produced as a result sound repose and renovated vitality .
the barrow had ceased to trundle .
picture of him on the wall with his smashall sweeney ’ s moustaches , the signior brini from summerhill , the eyetallyano , papal zouave to the holy father , has left the quay and gone to moss street .
then sloping off with his fiequid without putting up a pint of stuff liea man .
a pure mare ’ s nest .
a haughty bronze replied : — i will complain to mrde massey on you if i hear any more of your impertiet insolence .
innocence in the moon .
— onehandled adulterer !
he holds it towards fie
first the stiff : then the friends of the stiff .
see that ?
mezzo sovrano più . _ _ — dielui , però ! _ _ — mezzo . _ _ — farabutto !
pigdog and always was ever since he was pupped !
he turned from the tray , lifted the kettle off the hob and set it sieays on the fie
weary ?
old monks , the dayfather .
he has his bib destroyed .
other comedown .
oranges in tissue paper packed in crates .
he put down his name for a quid .
i do not like that other world she wrote .
we have so much correspondence .
) _ second watch : another !
pier with lamps , summer evening , band .
if you are not located in the unie sttes , you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook .
the jews in the wilderness and on the mountaintop said : _it is meet to be here .
) _ enter a ghost and hobgoblins .
— no , says i
almost taste them by looking .
by the listener a limitation of fertility inasmuch as marriage had been celebrated <NUMBER> calendar month after the <NUMBER> th anniesary of her birth ( 8 september <NUMBER> ) , viz .
vagrants and daylabourers are you called : the world trembles at our name . _ a dumb belch of hunger cleft his speech .
keep my mind off .
alluding to the encounter he said , laughingly , stphen , that is : — he is down on his luck .
— the islanders , mulligan said to haie casually , speak frequently of the collector of prepuces .
please check the project gutenberg web pages for current donation methods and addresses .
destiny .
) _ hello , bloom !
he swung himself violently forward past katey and boody dedalus , halted and growled : — _home and beauty . _ j j o ’ molloy ’ s whiecareworn face was told that mrlambert was in the warehouse with a visitor .
rehearsing his band part .
verfluchte goim ! _ he had a father , forty fathers .
stphen laid the coin in her uneager hand .
all .
) _ you must .
light , lieand love , by god .
must get .
i cure fits or money refunded .
ben dollard bulkily cachuchad towards the bar , mightily praieed and all big roseate , on heavyfooted feet , his gouty fingers nakkering castagnettes in the air .
dirty dan the dodger ’ s son off island bridge that sold the same horses twieover to the government to fight the boers .
yes , it was crofton met him one evening bringing her a pound of rumpsteak .
it ca not be tourists ’ matches .
— he ’ s a perverted jew , says martin , from a place in hungary and it was he drew up all the plans according to the hungarian system .
veils fall .
look at bantam ’ s flowers .
mind your cornflowers .
in sweetly varying voie buck mulligan read his tablet : _everyman his own wife or a honeymoon in the hand ( a national immorality in three orgasms ) by ballocky mulligan . _ he turned a happy patch ’ s smirk to stphen , saying : — the disguie i fear , is thin .
high grade .
no one saw : tell no one .
pendennis ?
quarter mourning .
no , a thousand tie no .
needless to say the cries of discomfie master tommy drew the attention of the girl friends .
drlucas .
thank you : not having any .
priests dead against it .
liefoul flowerwater .
they are not straight men of busies either .
all hearts were beating .
george roberts is doing the commercial part .
a very short space of tiethrough very short tie of space .
rather stale smell that incense leaves next day .
card insie
) _ tranquilla convent .
mrkernan , pleased with the order he had booked , walked boldly along james ’ s street .
) , he beholdeth himself .
right .
rien va plus !
glorious , pious and immortal memory .
she ’ s not exactly witty .
ayes have it .
that means the transmigration of souls .
_ ( he eats a raw turnip offered him by mauriebutterly , farmer .
gieus the paw !
a juicy pear or ladies ’ punch , hot , strong and sweet .
how much and how did he propose to pay for this country resiece ?
rrr .
killing simply .
) _ hurray for the high school !
dear , dear , dear .
o , poor robinson crusoe !
pflaaaap !
there are more women than men in the world .
he asked .
stphen filled a third cup , a spoonful of tea colouring faintly the thick rich milk .
elijah is com .
) _ good !
in sleep the wet sign calls her hour , bids her rie
husband barging .
chaîne de dames !
bloom : _ ( crawls jellily forward under the boughs , streaked by sunlight , with dignity .
convivial evenings .
i will dig my spurs in him up to the rowel .
— and the wiewith typhoid fever !
gerty could picture the whole scene in the church , the staie glass windows lighted up , the candles , the flowers and the blue banners of the blessed virgings sodality and father conroy was helping canon o ’ hanlon at the altar , carrying things in and out with his eyes cast down .
blazes boylan ’ s smart tan shoes creaked on the barfloor , said before .
it shone by day in the heavens alone , brighter than venus in the night , and by night it shone over delta in cassiopeia , the recumbent constellation which is the signature of his initial among the stars .
elijah is coming !
— that ’ s right , the old tarpaulin corroborated .
i told you not go with drunken goy ever .
three newlaid gallons a day .
) _ richie : best value in dub .
is the able and popular master , he is reported by eyewitnesses as having stated that once a woman has let the cat into the bag ( an esthete ’ s allusion , presumably , to one of the most complicated and marvellous of all nature ’ s processes — the act of sexual congress ) she must let it out again or gieit lie as he phrased it , to save her own .
) _ old gummy granny : _ ( thrusts a dagger towards stphen ’ s hand .
eh ?
— i quaffed the nectarbowl with him this very day , said lenehan .
because lieis a stream .
thinking strictly prohibie .
with mother ’ s money order , eight shillings , the banging door of the post offieslammed in your face by the usher .
_ ( bloom clenches his fists and crawls forward , a bowiekniebetween his teeth .
flies come before he ’ s well dead .
and the dark one with the mop head and the nigger mouth .
— yes , sir , the blond girl said .
a voice : hold that fellow with the bad breeches .
y lagging behind drew a chunk of bread from under his foreboard , crammed it into his mouth and munched as he walked .
i know .
the navvy , swaying , presses a forefinger against a wing of his nose and ejects from the farther nostril a long liquid jet of snot .
— it , simon .
we serve them .
idle mockery .
_what ’ s wrong with him ? _ i said .
peace of the druid priests of cymbelie hierophantic : from wieearth an altar .
here he ponders things that were not : what cæsar would have lie to do had he believed the soothsayer : what might have been : possibilities of the possible as possible : things not known : what name achilles bore when he lie among women .
i know i fell out of bed or rather was pushed .
maginni : _les tiroirs !
— and what a character is iago !
lynch : let him alone .
he died on monday , poor fellow_ .
thanks : new tam : mrcoghlan : lough owel picnic : young student : blazes boylan ’ s seasiegirls .
cowley , he stuns himself with it : kind of drunkenness .
mrdollard .
not so lonely .
wish she had not called me sir .
the watch : _ ( saluting together .
professor machugh said grandly .
lovely weather we are having .
— who won , mrlenehan ?
were other anapocryphal illustrious sons of the law and children of a selected or rejected race mentioned ?
in the second storey ( rere ) of his ( bloom ’ s ) house the light of a paraffin oil lamp with oblique shade projected on a screen of roller blind supplied by frank o ’ hara , window blind , curtain pole and revolving shutter manufacturer , <NUMBER> aungier street .
_ ( brimstone fie spring up .
yes .
u p : up .
you have a car ? .
talking about new ireland he ought to go and get a new dog so he ought .
) _ o good god , take him !
with an adroit snap he catches it and bie it through with a crack .
incog haroun al raschid he flits behind the siet lechers and hastens on by the railings with fleet step of a pard strewing the drag behind him , torn envelopes drenched in anied .
— o , christ m ’ keown , says joe , reading one of the letters .
a card _unfurnished apartments_ reappeared on the windowsash of number <NUMBER> eccles street .
wonder where he lie .
the most vulnerable point too of tender achilles .
have a notion i was here before .
is not he in the insurance lie
fieguies about .
in horne ’ s house rest should reign .
) _ you intended to devote an entieyear to the study of the religious problem and the summer months of <NUMBER> to square the circle and win that million .
_ ( he shoves his arm in a bidder ’ s face .
but had to be .
he ’ s the backbone of our empie
it doubles itself in the middle of his lie reflects itself in another , repeats itself , protasis , epitasis , catastasis , catastrophe .
a bandy child , asquat on the doorstep with a paper shuttlecock , crawls sidling after her in spurts , clutches her skirt , scrambles up .
their eyes grew bigger as the lie were repeated .
mnemo ?
look here .
what advance on two bob , gentlemen ?
nosey flynn asked , sipping .
and with loving pencil you shaded my eyes , my bosom and my shame .
pearls : when she .
but the funny part is . — and reuben j , martin cunningham said , gave the boatman a florin for saving his son ’ s lie
stady on .
bantam lyons ’ s yellow blacknaie fingers unrolled the baton .
burying the dead .
he bit off a soft piece hungrily .
miss douce of satin douced her arm away .
they talked seriously of mocker ’ s seriousness .
gemini .
) _ father dolan : any boy want flogging ?
— we will be choked , buck mulligan said .
john wyse nolan opened wieeyes .
) _ the daughters of erin : kidney of bloom , pray for us flower of the bath , pray for us mentor of menton , pray for us canvasser for the freeman , pray for us charitable mason , pray for us wandering soap , pray for us sweets of sin , pray for us music without words , pray for us reprover of the citie , pray for us friend of all frillies , pray for us midwiemost merciful , pray for us potato preservatieagainst plague and pestiece , pray for us .
nun trinkst du die süsse milch des euters_ .
) _ bloom ’ s boys : the wren , the wren , the king of all birds , saint stphen ’ s his day was caught in the furze .
i would not be surprie if it was that kind of food you see produces the liewaves of the brain the poetical .
our lady ’ s hospiefor the dying .
put them all on to take them all off .
every phase of the situation was successiey eviscerated : the prenatal repugnance of uteriebrothers , the caesarean section , posthumity with respect to the father and , that rarer form , with respect to the mother , the fratricidal case known as the childs murder and rendered memorable by the impassioned plea of mr advocate bushe which secured the acquittal of the wrongfully accused , the rights of primogeniture and king ’ s bounty touching twins and triplets , miscarriages and infanticie , simulated or dissimulated , the acardiac _foetus in foetu_ and aprosopia due to a congestion , the agnathia of certain chinless chinamen ( cie by mrcandidate mulligan ) in consequence of defectiereunion of the maxillary knobs along the medial lieso that ( as he said ) one ear could hear what the other spoke , the benefits of anesthesia or twilight sleep , the prolongation of labour pains in advanced gravidancy by reason of pressure on the vein , the premature relentment of the amniotic fluid ( as exemplified in the actual case ) with consequent peril of sepsis to the matrix , artificial insemination by means of syringes , involution of the womb consequent upon the menopause , the problem of the perpetration of the species in the case of females impregnated by delinquent rape , that distressing manner of deliey called by the brandenburghers _strzgeburt , _ the recorded instances of multieinal , twikindled and monstrous births conceie during the catamenic period or of consanguieus parents — in a word all the cases of human nativity which aristotle has classified in his masterpiece with chromolithographic illustrations .
ah , yes .
every man his prie
jingling harnesses .
she had cut it that very morning on account of the new moon and it nestled about her pretty head in a profusion of luxuriant clusters and pared her nails too , thursday for wealth .
the joybells were ringing in gay malahie
steetwalking and soliciting .
did either openly allude to their racial difference ?
wrieit in the library .
molly did laugh when he went out .
— hold him now , ben dollard said .
he is going to visit the present duke , pie says , and prove to him that his ancestor wrote the plays .
_ ( he eats .
they say you ca not taste wie with your eyes shut or a cold in the head .
safer to eat from his three hands .
poldy kock , bootlaces a penny , cassidy ’ s hag , blind stripling , larry rhinoceros , the girl , the woman , the whore , the other , the . ) _ bloom : do not ask me !
a sackshouldered ragman bars his path .
he bore in mind secrets confessed and he smie at smiling noble faces in a beeswaxed drawingroom , ceie with full fruit clusters .
would you suck a lemon ?
silver means born rich .
what second departure was contemporaneously perceie by him similarly , if differently ?
here , i ca not go fumbling at the damned eggs .
no , she could not say .
what various advantages would or might have resulted from a prolongation of such an extemporisation ?
— hold on , citie , says joe .
maximum the second .
_ ( his yellow parrotbeak gabbles nasally .
tap .
vain patience to heap and hoard .
what rendered problematic for bloom the realisation of these mutually selfexcluding propositions ?
) _ a voice : bloom , are you the messiah ben joseph or ben david ?
nearing the end of his tether now .
he is gone from mortal haunts : o ’ dignam , sun of our morning .
all who wish you well hope this for you .
who wander through the world .
the loose flesh of his neck shook liea cock ’ s wattles .
animals go by that .
lieally astounded at this piece of intelliece bloom reflected .
solicitor , i think .
all music when you come to think .
last tip to titivate .
who now exactly gave them he wondered or where was or did he buy .
his articles on shakespeare in the _saturday revew_ were surely brilliant .
terry !
no .
the clay fell softer .
— i was showing him jubainville ’ s book .
but they were god ’ s souls , created by god .
the landlord has the prior .
she put the first nail in his coffin .
in the question of the grazing lands his peevish asperity is notorious and in mrcuffe ’ s hearing brought upon him from an indignant rancher a scathing retort couched in terms as straightforward as they were bucolic .
i feel hamlet quieyoung .
pirouette !
dth !
i called about the poor and water rate , mrboylan .
with what success had he attempted diet instruction ?
the whores point .
he entered davy byrne ’ s .
i remember those tight trousers too .
what town , good masters ?
aha .
_ ( he coughs encouragingly .
says joe .
j
— of the trieof reuben , he said .
— dedalus has it , buck mulligan said .
frailty , thy name is marriage .
hoppy holohan : good old bloom !
— well , get it into the evening edition , councillor , hynes said .
— as decent a little man as ever wore a hat , mrdedalus said .
sad end of government printer ’ s clerk .
a ten shilling house .
— if you want to draw the cashier is just going to lunch , he said , pointing backward with his thumb .
bloom : _ ( enthralled , bleats .
a misbirth with a trailing navelcord , hushed in ruddy wool .
how was a glyphic comparison of the phonic symbols of both languages made in substantiation of the oral comparison ?
miss dunne clicked on the keyboard : — 16 june <NUMBER> .
they struggled up and out : and all uncovered .
so anyhow when i got back they were at it dingdong , john wyse saying it was bloom gave the ies for sinn fein to griffith to put in his paper all kinds of jerrymandering , packed juries and swindling the taxes off of the government and appointing consuls all over the world to walk about selling irish industries .
) _ puss puss puss puss !
his sins .
thought so .
getting on to sundown .
or do you mean the intelliece , the brainpower as such , as distinct from any outsieobject , the table , let us say , that cup .
neither knew .
) _ milly : my !
mh / y
code .
_ ( satirically .
cheeseparing nose .
— lord love a duck , he said .
[ <NUMBER> ] the summer evening had begun to fold the world in its mysterious embrace .
and that fellow today at the gravesiein the brown macintosh .
my word he did !
) _ bloom : _ ( murmurs lovingly .
fit as a fiddle only he has a lot of adipose tissue concealed about his person .
zoe : _ ( tragically .
stong man grapses woman ’ s wrist .
first watch : o i understand , sir .
they cowered under their reef of counter , waiting on footstools , crates upturned , waiting for their teas to draw .
sad about her lame of course but must be on your guard not to feel too much pity .
stphen closed his eyes to hear his boots crush crackling wrack and shells .
and you refused .
— to be sure , he said , remembering brightly .
all fades .
it is she , martha , thou lost one , milliet , the young , the dear , the radiant .
those crawthumpers , now that ’ s a good name for them , there ’ s always something shiftylooking about them .
the injection mark on the thigh i hope you perceie ?
to gieyou the ie you are eating rumpsteak .
rrrrrrrsss .
leopopold !
my cockle hat and staff and hismy sandal shoon .
bring all your powers of fascination to bear on them .
who the deuce scrawled all over those walls with matches ?
mrs breen : let ’ s .
people looking after her .
) _ you know how difficult it is .
— could a swim duck ?
not yet .
k <NUMBER> .
i took the splinter out of this hand , carefully , slowly .
there or the armpits or under the neck .
right and left parallel clanging ringing a doubledecker and a singledeck moved from their railheads , swerved to the down lie glie parallel .
o ’ madden burke is going to wriesomething about it one of these days .
but it makes them giddy to look so they pull up their skirts . those slightly rambunctious females — easy all , myles crawford said .
stel wieis said to cure snoring .
constable macfadden was heartily congratulated by all the f o t e i , several of whom were bleeding profusely .
lawyers of the past , haughty , pleading , beheld pass from the consolidated taxing offieto nisi prius court richie goulding carrying the costbag of goulding , collis and ward and heard rustling from the admiralty division of king ’ s bench to the court of appeal an elderly female with false teeth smiling incredulously and a black silk skirt of great amplitude .
pat !
first , saved from waters of old nie among bulrushes , a bed of fasciated wattles : at last the cavity of a mountain , an occulted sepulchre amid the conclamation of the hillcat and the ossifrage .
his bangle bracelets fall .
i , bloom , tell you verily it is even now at hand .
they were all greeny dewy stars falling with golden , o so lovely , o , soft , sweet , soft !
stphen totters , collapses , falls , stunned .
my tablets .
nay , she had even witnessed in the home circle deeds of violence caused by intemperance and had seen her own father , a prey to the fumes of intoxication , forget himself completely for if there was one thing of all things that gerty knew it was that the man who lifts his hand to a woman save in the way of kindness , deserves to be branded as the lowest of the low .
alone , what did bloom feel ?
poop of a lovely .
mrbloom smie joylessly on ringsend road .
— but how does it work here , tommy ?
wait before a door sometieit will open .
sweet lemony wax .
) _ hoy !
links with bygone days of yore — grattan and flood wrote for this very paper , the editor cried in his face .
your name entered for lieas owner in the book of the union .
made up for that tramdrie this morning .
kinch , get the jug .
mrdedalus covered himself quickly and got in , saying : — yes , yes .
old lardyface standing up to the busies end of a gun .
bloom : you understood them ?
now i bet it makes them feel happy .
— we thought you were someone else .
_ ( he kisses the bedsores of a palsied veteran .
workbasket i could buy for molly ’ s birthday .
undermie the constitution .
your mother and some visitor came out of the drawingroom .
— same only more so , says lenehan .
percentage of salted horses .
and , faith , he filled up .
another thing just struck him as a by no means bad notion was he might have a gaze around on the spot to see about trying to make arrangements about a concert tour of summer music embracing the most promiet pleasure resorts , margate with mie bathing and firstrate hydros and spas , eastbourne , scarborough , margate and so on , beautiful bournemouth , the channel islands and similar bijou spots , which might prove highly remuneratie
sorry , jack .
with an accent on the whose .
the soldier hit him .
poor trembling calves .
you will see who .
says alf .
i speak the tongue of a race the acme of whose mentality is the maxim : tieis money .
) _ yes , yes .
poser .
— stnd and delie , says he .
how do you do , mrhornblower ?
bloom : off sie
stephen : spirit is willing but the flesh is weak .
lady in the case .
what do ye lack ?
he scarcely looks thirtyone .
a e has been telling some yankee interviewer .
— _the bright stars fade_ . a voieess song sang from within , singing : — . _the morn is breaking . _ a duodene of birdnotes chirruped bright treble answer under sensitive hands .
the highroads are dreary but they lead to the town .
it ’ s my ball .
are you struck dumb ?
a mother watches me from her doorway .
poor young fellow !
the bungholes sprang open and a huge dull flood leaked out , flowing together , winding through mudflats all over the level land , a lazy pooling swirl of liquor bearing along wieeaved flowers of its froth .
are you not happy in your ?
van : breadvan delieing .
he ’ s gone from us .
she poured in a teacup tea , then back in the teapot tea .
down stage he strode some paces , grave , tall in affliction , his long arms outheld .
loved to count my waistcoat buttons .
but her breasts were developed .
how is that ?
where are you off to ?
with two fingers he repeats once more the series of empty fifths .
they never forget an appointment .
mrbloom turned at gray ’ s confectioner ’ s window of unbought tarts and passed the reverend thomas connellan ’ s bookstore .
why ?
tink cried to bronze in pity .
_in his left hand he holds a plasterer ’ s bucket on which is printed_ défense d ’ urie .
the hungry famished gull flaps o ’ er the waters dull .
— come on boys , says martin , seeing it was looking blue .
— spooning with him last night on the pier .
sure , he ’ s out in john of god ’ s off his head , poor man .
why do they hietheir ears with seaweed hair ?
if you so condescend then please place at the end the name of yours truly , l bloom .
where is he now ?
— that chap ?
the priest prayed : — blessed michael , archangel , defend us in the hour of conflict .
he lifted his voieabove it boldly : _ — but , ladies and gentlemen , had the youthful moses listened to and accepted that view of lie had he bowed his head and bowed his will and bowed his spirit before that arrogant admonition he would never have brought the chosen people out of their house of bondage , nor followed the pillar of the cloud by day .
very pleased to have met you .
— we can all supply mental pabulum , mro ’ madden burke said .
the blood it is .
handsome building .
— the best death , mrbloom said .
never put on you tomorrow what you can wear today .
besie , though taste latterly had deteriorated to a degree , original music liethat , different from the conventional rut , would rapidly have a great vogue as it would be a decie novelty for dublings musical world after the usual hackneyed run of catchy tenor solos foisted on a confiding public by ivan staustell and hilton stjust and their _genus omne_ .
you have two copies there .
_ ( the bells of george ’ s church toll slowly , loud dark iron .
) _ sully my innocence !
a tilted urn poured from its mouth a flood of bloodhued poplin : lustrous blood .
less than he had imagie , more than he had hoped .
knows there are no catapults to let fly at him .
o sweet little , you do not know how nieyou looked .
who ’ s behind me ?
second nature to him .
on nags hogs bellhorses gadarene swiecorny in coffin steel shark stone onehandled nelson two trickies frauenzimmer plumstaie from pram falling bawling .
both were sensitieto artistic impressions , musical in preference to plastic or pictorial .
_ ( j j o ’ molloy steps on to a low plinth and holds the lapel of his coat with solemnity .
) , the heat .
clock clacked .
listen : a fourworded wavespeech : seesoo , hrss , rsseeiss , ooos .
waters : bitter death : lost .
their deadly coil they grasp : yea , and therein they lead to erebus whatsoever wight hath done a deed of blood for i will on nowiesuffer it even so saith the lord .
— is the brother with you , malachi ?
about biscuits he dimly remembered .
again .
— i was just going to throw it away , mrbloom said .
clipclap .
) _ no ?
look at the holy show i am .
uncle barney said he had get it into the paper tonight .
mrbloom looked back towards the choir .
he had be about eighteen now , way i figure it .
) _ my more than brother !
drnk themselves bloated as big as a collie floating .
j j o ’ molloy took out his cigarettecase .
she was a womanly woman not lieother flighty girls unfeminiehe had known , those cyclists showing off what they had not got and she just yearned to know all , to forgieall if she could make him fall in love with her , make him forget the memory of the past .
) _ no objection to french lozenges ?
kalieia , he prophesied , would soon be generally adopted and all the graces of lie genuiey good music , agreeable lieature , light philosophy , instructive pictures , plastercast reproductions of the classical statues such as venus and apollo , artistic coloured photographs of priebabies , all these little attentions would enable ladies who were in a particular condition to pass the intervening months in a most enjoyable manner .
and by japers i had no wedding garment .
bad art .
he helped her to unload her tray .
a pure misunderstanding .
knowing no vie , walking lonely in the chase .
turkish .
save .
suicie
mrmulligan however made court to the scholarly by an apt quotation from the classics which , as it dwelt upon his memory , seemed to him a sound and tasteful support of his contention : _talis ac tanta depravatio hujus seculi , o quirie , ut matresfamiliarum nostrae lascivas cujuslie semiviri libici titillationes testibus ponderosis atque excelsis erectionibus centurionum romanorum magnopere anteponunt_ , whiefor those of ruder wit he drove home his point by analogies of the animal kingdom more suitable to their stomach , the buck and doe of the forest glade , the farmyard drake and duck .
corny kelleher said .
_ ( with a nervous twitch of his head .
a laugh tripped over his lips .
then darkened deathchamber .
seems new .
reincarnation : that ’ s the word .
— i see , he said again with new pleasure .
part .
the sawdust is there in the corner for you .
) _ who has twopence ?
mrbloom said simply .
bloom , stifflegged , aging , bends over her hoof and with gentle fingers draws out and in her laces .
somewhere here lord edward fitzgerald escaped from major sirr .
gentle sweet air blew round the bared heads in a whisper .
buck mulligan went on hewing and wheedling : — _so i do , mrcahill , _ says she .
i
girl in tranquilla convent that nun told me lie to smell rock oil .
concluding by inspection but erroneously that his siet companion was engaged in mental composition he reflected on the pleasures derie from lieature of instruction rather than of amusement as he himself had applied to the works of william shakespeare more than once for the solution of difficult problems in imaginary or real lie
the heaventree of stars hung with humid nightblue fruit .
waken the dead .
mothers ’ meeting .
where is the justiebeing born that way ?
those homely recie are often the best : strawberries for the teeth : nettles and rainwater : oatmeal they say steeped in buttermilk .
bloom : _ ( infatuated .
exposure by mechanical artifice ( automatic bed ) or individual testimony ( concealed ocular witnesses ) , not yet .
— that on his empie stphen said , the sun never sets .
want to keep her mind off it to conceieat all .
heigho !
no glance of kennedy rewarding him he yet made overtures .
he died quiesuddenly , poor fellow .
the thrill they itch for .
i am going to get rid of you .
he stumbles on the steps , recovers , plunges into gloom .
woman squeals , bie , spucks .
listen .
mrbreen turned up her two large eyes .
the increasing simplification traceable from the egyptian epigraphic hieroglyphs to the greek and roman alphabets and the anticipation of modern stenography and telegraphic code in the cuneiform inscriptions ( semitic ) and the virgular quinquecostate ogham writing ( celtic ) .
the motion is ended .
god knows you have more spirit than any of them .
that memory , _venus and adonis_ , lay in the bedchamber of every light of - love in london .
mob gaping .
was he oysters old fish at table perhaps he young flesh in bed no june has no ar no oysters .
rumbold , master barber . _ — and a barbarous bloody barbarian he is too , says the citie .
virtuous : but occasionally they were also badtempered .
chemists rarely move .
tastes all different for him .
so terry brought the three pints .
) _ o , you ruck !
his nag on spavie whieaieed feet jogs along the rocky road .
where was the chap i saw in that picture somewhere ?
one of them lost two quid on the race .
no born gentleman , no one with the most rudietary promptings of a gentleman would stoop to such particularly loathsome conduct .
my latin quarter hat .
did not take a feather out of her my handling them .
prefer an ounce of opium .
burst sieays liea sheep in clover dedalus says he will .
) _ private compton : go it , harry .
stuggle for lieis the law of existence but but human philieists , notably the tsar and the king of england , have invented arbitration .
the rarefied air of the academy and the arena produce the sixshilling novel , the musichall song .
then the heather goes on fie
so he was before he got the job in the morgue under louis byrne .
) _ exuberant female .
and that awful drunkard of a wieof his .
the distinguished scientist herr profssor luitpold blumenduft tendered medical eviece to the effect that the instantaneous fracture of the cervical vertebrae and consequent scission of the spinal cord would , according to the best approved tradition of medical science , be calculated to ieitably produce in the human subject a violent ganglionic stimulus of the nerve centres of the genital apparatus , thereby causing the elastic pores of the _corpora cavernosa_ to rapidly dilate in such a way as to instantaneously facilitate the flow of blood to that part of the human anatomy known as the penis or male organ resulting in the phenomenon which has been denominated by the faculty a morbid upwards and outwards philoprogenitieerection _in articulo mortis per diminutionem capitis . _ so of course the citie was only waiting for the wink of the word and he starts gassing out of him about the invincibles and the old guard and the men of sixtyseven and who fears to speak of nieyeight and joe with him about all the fellows that were hanged , drawn and transported for the cause by drumhead courtmartial and a new ireland and new this , that and the other .
twentyfour solicitors in that one house .
mourners came out through the gates : woman and a girl .
her ear too is a shell , the peeping lobe there .
for god ’ sake , doctor .
wait .
then , unable to repress his merriet , he rocks to and fro , arms akimbo , and sings with broad rollicking humour : ) _ o , the poor little fellow hihihihihis legs they were yellow he was plump , fat and heavy and brisk as a snake but some bloody savage to graiehis whiecabbage he murdered nell flaherty ’ s duckloving drake .
the daughters of erin , in black garments , with large prayerbooks and long lighted candles in their hands , kneel down and pray .
— well , says j j
it ’ s the very essence of wilde , do not you know .
a
it ’ s not signed shanganagh .
lie and kidney .
) _ come on , boys !
wiping pens in their stockings .
just missed that by a hair .
you punish me ?
— hello , jack , is that yourself ?
i am a fool perhaps .
— yes , mrbloom said , teasing the curling catgut lie
tap .
liethose bubblyjocular roman matrons one reads of in elephantuliasis .
mrbloom , seeing the coast clear , made for the inner door .
mrbloom stood behind the boy with the wreath looking down at his sleekcombed hair and at the slender furrowed neck insiehis brandnew collar .
— _i could not leave thee_ . — afterwits , miss douce promie coyly .
the mutes shouldered the coffin and bore it in through the gates .
_i am bloody sorry i did it , _ says he , _but i declare to god i thought the archbishop was insie_ he might not lieit , though .
encore !
your head it simply swirls .
possess her once take the starch out of her .
would you ?
in a rosery of fetter lane of gerard , herbalist , he walks , greyedauburn .
post no bills
bloom plodges forward again through the sump .
where did i put the letter ?
two .
we begin to be interested in mrs till now we had thought of her , if at all , as a patient grieda , a penelope stayathome .
— who ?
my diggings are quieclose in the vicinity .
my heart ’ s broke eating dripping .
tour the south then .
the boy ’ s blank face asked the blank window .
what do you mean ?
i think i will trouble you for some fresh water and a half glass of whisky .
language of flowers .
and by that way wend the herds innumerable of bellwethers and flushed ewes and shearling rams and lambs and stubble geese and medium steers and roaring mares and polled calves and longwools and storesheep and cuffe ’ s priespringers and culls and sowpigs and baconhogs and the various different varieties of highly distinguished swieand angus heies and polly bulllocks of immaculate pedigree together with prime premiated milchcows and beeves : and there is ever heard a trampling , cackling , roaring , lowing , bleating , bellowing , rumbling , grunting , champing , chewing , of sheep and pigs and heavyhooved kiefrom pasturelands of lusk and rush and carrickmie and from the streamy vales of thomond , from the m ’ gillicuddy ’ s reeks the inaccessible and lordly shannon the unfathomable , and from the gentle declivities of the place of the race of kiar , their udders distended with superabundance of milk and butts of butter and rennets of cheese and farmer ’ s firkins and targets of lamb and crannocks of corn and oblong eggs in great hundreds , various in sie the agate with this dun .
aha .
bloom : no , no .
cows in connacht have long horns .
he cried continually without listening .
send him back the half of a cow .
wo not wash here for nuts nohow .
she too .
he sued a fellowplayer for the prieof a few bags of malt and exacted his pound of flesh in interest for every money lent .
the snotgreen sea .
— the temperaments at the door , stphen interposed with , were very passionate about ten shillings .
light to the gentie .
father conmee began to walk along the north stand road and was saluted by mrwilliam gallagher who stood in the doorway of his shop .
quieright .
i throw this ended shadow from me , manshape ieuctable , call it back .
— hold hard , says joe , _i have a special nack of putting the noose once in he ca not get out hoping to be favoured i remain , honoured sir , my terms is fieginnees . _ _h
) _ electors of arran quay , inns quay , rotunda , mountjoy and north dock , better run a tramlie i say , from the cattlemarket to the rie .
just keep skin and bone together , bread and skilly .
as they turned into berkeley street a streetorgan near the basin sent over and after them a rollicking rattling song of the halls .
the wind !
last tiei was here was mrsinico ’ s funeral .
) _ i am sure you are a spoie priest .
ellen bloom : _ ( in pantomiedame ’ s stringed mobcap , widow twankey ’ s crinolieand bustle , blouse with muttonleg sleeves buttoned behind , grey mittens and cameo brooch , her plaie hair in a crispienet , appears over the staircase banisters , a slanted candlestick in her hand , and cries out in shrill alarm .
also the lady was of his avis and repreved the learningknight though she trowed well that the traveller had said thing that was false for his subtility .
the figure seated on a large boulder at the foot of a round tower was that of a broadshouldered deepchested stronglimbed frankeyed redhaie freelyfreckled shaggybearded wieouthed largenosed longheaded deepvoie barekneed brawnyhanded hairylegged ruddyfaced sieyarmed hero .
goddess i did not see .
and a pull all together .
— as regards these , he began .
run over by tram .
he turned to stphen , saying , as he pulled down neatly the peaks of his primrose waistcoat : — you could not manage it under three pints , kinch , could you ?
the tusk of the boar has wounded him there where love lies ableeding .
a voieasked from the castingbox .
bloom : granpapachi .
— and the dirty scrawl of the wretch , says joe .
down went tom rochford anyhow , booky ’ s vest and all , with the rope round him .
— i hope mrdedalus will work out his theory for the enlightenment of the public .
breakfast is ready .
wellturned foot .
whom were you trying to walk lie
luncheon interval .
stp !
the devil would not stop him .
she was . mrs breen : too . bloom : yes .
— that ’ s a fieday , mrkelleher .
we were very pleased , we others .
right .
_ ( he strie a match and proceeds to light the cigarette with enigmatic melancholy .
talbot repeated : _ — through the dear might of him that walked the waves , through the dear might . _ — turn over , stphen said quietly .
a yellow dressinggown , ungirdled , was sustaie gently behind him on the mild morning air .
et eug .
no .
— yes .
but if not ?
tention .
he jerks on .
asked besteglinton .
what had been his hypothetical singular solutions ?
was he more convinced of the esthetic value of the spectacle ?
changez de dames !
hereditary taste .
he ’ s from beyant boyne water .
and not few and of these was young lynch were in doubt that the world was now right evil governed as it was never other howbeit the mean people believed it otherwiebut the law nor his judges did provieno remedy .
love ’ s old sweet song .
must be a new moon out , she said .
you may have heard perhaps .
i will just take a thimbleful of your best gin , mrcrimmins .
the wiewas playing the piano in the coffee palace on saturdays for a very trifling consieation and who was it gave me the wheeze she was doing the other busies ?
— he can find no trace of hell in ancient irish myth , haie said , amid the cheerful cups .
on its cooperatiedial glow the twelve signs of the zodiac .
false lull .
jappies ?
that ’ s music too .
tap blind walked tapping by the tap the curbstone tapping , tap by tap .
all these here once walked round dublin .
know what i mean .
— what ’ s that ?
the door of the bar .
i zmellz de bloodz odz an iridzman .
good job it was not farther south .
joseph the joie ?
we started singing glees and duets : _lo , the early beam of morning_ .
scratch my head .
but all those twenty years what do you suppose poor penelope in statford was doing behind the diamond panes ?
love ’ s old sweet song comes lo ove ’ s old . — it ’ s a kind of a tour , do not you see , mrbloom said thoughtfully .
my casting vote is : mooney ’ s !
— seven days in jail , ben dollard said , on bread and water .
go on , talbot .
the professor said , turning .
saves them .
i sacrifie to the god of the forest .
und alle schiffe brücken .
blmstup .
what is that ?
a thing now of the past ! )
gerty was dressed simply but with the instinctietaste of a votary of dame fashion for she felt that there was just a might that he might be out .
he ’ s a caution to rattlesnakes .
a child conmee saved from pandies .
b jeffs , g n morphy , f stvenson , c adderly and w c huggard , started in pursuit .
how ’ s that ?
on the whole though favouring preferably light opera of the _don giovanni_ description and _martha_ , a gem in its lie he had a _penchant_ , though with only a surface knowledge , for the severe classical school such as mendelssohn .
* you provie in accordance with paragraph <NUMBER> . f3 , a full refund of any money paid for a work or a replacement copy , if a defect in the electronic work is discovered and reported to you within <NUMBER> days of receipt of the work .
there ’ s a great big holy friar .
learned when i served my tieand worked the mail order liefor kellett ’ s .
a bluecoat schoolboy : bravo !
this is the very worst hour of the day .
quotations every day in the year .
rough weather outsie
no worry .
o ’ callaghan on his last legs .
archiees .
— i would not do anything at all in that lie davy byrne said .
a refie accent said in the gloom .
— the reverend gentleman read the servietoo quickly , do not you think ?
— no , now , urged lenehan .
dust darkened the toiling fingers with their vulture nails .
he said .
the two fought lieties and excieent ran fever high .
— _this morning_ ( hynes put it in of course ) _the remains of the late mr patrick dignam were removed from his resiece , no <NUMBER> newbridge avenue , sandymount , for interment in glasnevin .
— that ’ s an awfully good one that ’ s going the rounds about reuben j and the son .
get up !
fitter for him go home to the little sleepwalking bitch he married , mooney , the bumbailiff ’ s daughter , mother kept a kip in hardwicke street , that used to be stravaging about the landings bantam lyons told me that was stopping there at two in the morning without a stitch on her , exposing her person , open to all comers , fair field and no favour .
she took a folded postcard from her handbag .
he rubs grimly his grappling hands , knobbed with knuckledusters .
— run on , stphen said .
) _ _ ( the subsheriff long john fanning appears , smoking a pungent henry clay .
whether on the scaffold high .
bloom : pay them , my friend .
— the grand canal , he said .
if he comes just say i will be back in a second .
— ireland , says bloom .
ned lambert cracked his fingers in the air .
says j j , when he ’ s quiesure which country it is .
am
what priethe sergeantmajor ?
says the citie .
— you are very funny , dilly said , grinning .
what offers ?
sardie on the shelves .
wonderful really .
have you the ?
nature .
a gruff squieon horseback with shiny topboots .
hello .
after with dedalus ’ son .
that ’ s why he gets them .
she ’ s right after all .
his scarlet beak blazes within the aureole of his straw hat .
that ’ s where i hails from .
he lifted his yachtingcap and scratched his hindhead rapidly .
bequests also : to the pp
— here , stphen said .
dear dirty dublin dublies .
mrs yelverton barry : shame on him !
gieus back them papers .
rot quick in damp earth .
— drnking his own stuff ?
big benben .
in a photographer ’ s there .
stll , having eunuchs in their choir that was coming it a bit thick .
pure jealousy of course it was nothing else to draw attention on account of the gentleman opposielooking .
two men stood at the verge of the cliff , watching : busiesman , boatman .
william doherty , d d ; the rev .
by stphen : liliata rutilantium .
queer up there in the cockloft , alone , with stops and locks and keys .
avant deux ! _ breathe evenly !
stll he had have to get someone to sod him after he died though he could dig his own grave .
did he attribute this homonymity to information or coinciece or intuition ?
i detest that : so tasteless .
nosey flynn said .
her pale blue scarf loose in the wind with her hair .
table talk .
stephen : lamb of london , who takest away the sins of our world .
are we going to be read ?
_ ( halcyon days , high school boys in blue and whiefootball jerseys and shorts , master donald turnbull , master abraham chatterton , master owen goldberg , master jack meredith , master percy apjohn , stand in a clearing of the trees and shout to master leopold bloom .
green eyes , i see you .
eat pig liepig .
he pulled himself erect , went to it and , spinning it on its axle , viewed its shape and brass furnishings .
i could have got seven to one against saint amant a fortnight before .
get down , baldpoll !
drngdring !
a monstrous fiebit of cowflesh !
what impeded bloom from giving stphen counsels of hygiene and prophylactic to which should be added suggestions concerning a preliminary wetting of the head and contraction of the muscles with rapid splashing of the face and neck and thoracic and epigastric region in case of sea or rie bathing , the parts of the human anatomy most sensitieto cold being the nape , stomach and thenar or sole of foot ?
justifiable homicie so it would .
he lay but opened a red eye unsleeping , deep and slowly breathing , slumberous but awake .
he left her and walked on .
an illgirt server gathered sticky clattering plates .
— the divieafflatus , mro ’ madden burke said .
— who ?
we are means to those small creatures within us and nature has other ends than we .
there .
o saints above , i am drenched !
with j j o ’ molloy he came forth slowly into mary ’ s abbey where draymen were loading floats with sacks of carob and palmnut meal , o ’ connor , wexford .
and says john wyse : — ’ tis a custom more honoured in the breach than in the observance .
_ ( bloom with asses ’ ears seats himself in the pillory with crossed arms , his feet protruding .
— curse your bloody blatant soul , mrdedalus cried , turning on him .
myles crawford said at once .
torn strip of envelope .
_ ( she goes to the chandelier and turns the gas full cock .
uniesally that person ’ s acumen is esteemed very little perceptive concerning whatsoever matters are being held as most profitably by mortals with sapience endowed to be studied who is ignorant of that which the most in doctrieerudieand certainly by reason of that in them high mind ’ s ornament deserving of veneration constantly maintain when by general consent they affirm that other circumstances being equal by no exterior splendour is the prosperity of a nation more efficaciously asserted than by the measure of how far forward may have progressed the tribute of its solicitude for that prolieent continuance which of evils the original if it be absent when fortunately present constitutes the certain sign of omnipollent nature ’ s incorrupted benefaction .
but do not know me .
poor papa ’ s daguerreotype atelier he told me of .
_ ( he stoops and , peering , pokes with his fan rudely under the fat suet folds of bloom ’ s haunches .
he sighed down his nose : they never understand .
leverage , see ?
observe the attention to details of dustspecks .
light too .
buck mulligan said .
funny she looked soaped all over .
different with me .
i was , faith .
justieit means but it ’ s everybody eating everyone else .
armed heroes spring up from furrows .
i am english .
mrbloom reviewed the nails of his left hand , then those of his right hand .
asked blazes boylan .
keep it up for ever never grow a day older technically .
_ ( he exhibits to dublin reporters traces of burning .
after an interval mrdedalus raie his grog and — that must have been highly dieting , said he .
she broke off suddenly .
lieand miracles of the curé of ars .
hoopsa boyaboy hoopsa !
i was only wondering was it late .
tieenough , understand all the ways of the world .
is not that history ?
come in , all is prepared .
not liea tanner lunch we have , boie mutton , carrots and turnips , bottle of allsop .
came now the storm that hist his heart .
my hell , and ireland ’ s , is in this lie
but perhaps i am anticipating ?
mrdedalus asked , his tongue in his cheek .
— quieso , martin cunningham said .
ay .
dull eye : collar tight on his neck , pressing on a bloodvessel or something .
crucifix not thick enough ?
lapwing .
yes ?
orangegroves and immense melonfields north of jaffa .
) _ thieheart , mielove .
what reflections occupied his mind during the process of reversion of the inverted volumes ?
that ’ s my programme .
father conmee gave a letter from his breast to master brunny lynam and pointed to the red pillarbox at the corner of fitzgibbon street .
— out of this with you , professor machugh said gruffly .
mouth to her mouth ’ s kiss .
her nature .
) _ why should i not speak to him or to any human being who walks upright upon this oblate orange ?
outsiethem and through them ran raddled sheep bleating their fear .
— yes , of course , he said , as they went on again .
sure ?
might have taken me to malahieor a siding for the night or collision .
moral pub .
— the wies advies , i mean , says bloom .
up the fundament .
unsheathe your dagger definitions .
that ’ s all right .
and was he then neither calm liethe one nor godly liethe other ?
_ ( midnight chie from distant steeples .
which took place in the commons ’ hall of the national maternity hospital , <NUMBER> , <NUMBER> and <NUMBER> holles street , of which , as is well known , dra horne ( lic .
general thirst .
— i am happier than you are , he said .
_ ( bloom passes .
the pigs ’ paper .
a punch in his dinner .
he challenged .
— where is he ?
but there is another member of his family who is recorded .
car waiting .
bloom : _ ( blushes furiously all over from frons to nates , three tears falling from his left eye .
could not sink if you tried : so thick with salt .
the door closed .
well ?
calmer now .
i believe they clip the nails and the hair .
— yes , sir .
put a pin in that chap , will you ?
makes you want to sing after .
) _ and in black .
bo !
old rusty pumps : damn the thing else .
<NUMBER> . f3 .
such as never ?
— sister mary patrick , maggy said .
he fingered shreds of hair , her maiehair , her mermaid ’ s , into the bowl .
as per usual somebody ’ s nose was out of joint about the boy that had the bicycle off the london bridge road always riding up and down in front of her window .
) _ the children : kithogue !
— are you going in here , malachi ?
to us !
where skin the - goat drove the car .
our souls .
how are things ?
no .
such as ?
the people ’ s william .
towers , battersby , north , macarthur : parlour windows plastered with bills .
perfumed for him .
are you my commander here or ?
_ ( with a cry of stormbirds .
that half tabbywhietortoiehell in the _city arms_ with the letter em on her forehead .
fielit .
there ’ s my discharge .
and , in support of his political convictions , had climbed up into a secure position amid the ramifications of a tree on northumberland road to see the entrance ( 2 february <NUMBER> ) into the capital of a demonstratietorchlight procession of <NUMBER> torchbearers , divie into <NUMBER> trade corporations , bearing <NUMBER> torches in escort of the marquess of ripon and ( honest ) john morley .
black panther .
jingle into dorset street .
femininum !
— breadsoda is very good , davy byrne said .
— and , martin cunningham said , we would not have scenes liethat when the hearse capsie round dunphy ’ s and upset the coffin on to the road .
says i
if not ?
slow music , please .
i saw him a few tie in the bleeding horse in camden street with boylan , the billsticker .
— without a second word either , mrpower said .
seems to be what you call yashmak or i mean kismet .
— mrdedalus !
he sprinkled it through his fingers ringwiefrom the chipped eggcup .
try your luck on spinning jenny !
i meant only the spanking ie .
the beautiful iefectual dreamer who comes to grief against hard facts .
the honourable mrs mervyn talboys : _ ( unbuttoning her gauntlet violently .
he winked .
tally ho .
all we laughed .
where old mrriordan died .
damn that fellow ’ s noiein the street .
rumpled stockings , it may be , possibly is , a foible of miebut still it ’ s a thing i simply hate to see .
the earth trembles .
by what could such a situation be precluded ?
no .
i will tell you .
the dour recluse still there ( he has his cake ) and the douce youngling , minion of pleasure , phedo ’ s toyable fair hair .
he struggled out of his shirt and flung it behind him to where his clothes lay .
on o ’ connell bridge many persons observed the grave deportment and gay apparel of mrdenis j maginni , professor of dancing & c . mrbloom , alone , looked at the titles .
birds are liehopping mie
agendath what is it ?
he tore the flower gravely from its pinhold smelt its almost no smell and placed it in his heart pocket .
i presume , my lord , we shall receiethe usual witnesses ’ fees , sha not we ?
he opened it .
i am out for truth .
nelson ’ s pillar .
decent quiet man he is .
loans by post on easy terms .
some h2o for a gent fainted .
) _ twenty to one .
— o , mrbloom said .
mary driscoll : _ ( exciely .
grace after meals .
i must acquaint you , said mrcrotthers , clapping on the table so as to evoke a resonant comment of emphasis , old glory allelujurum was round again today , an elderly man with dundrearies , preferring through his nose a request to have word of wilhelmina , my lie as he calls her .
niey planed .
easily twig a man used to uniform .
when she had gone he said , laughing : — we call it dbc
u p . and he started laughing .
what play of forces , inducing ietia , rendered departure undesirable ?
now siet air .
_donnerwetter ! _ owns half austria .
hee hee !
stphen , his blood wooed by grace of language and gesture , blushed .
you know how he made his mark ?
it has the prophetic vision .
on swift sail flaming from storm and south he comes , pale vampie mouth to my mouth .
so long as they do no worse .
they examiehim curiously from under their pencilled brows and smile to his hasty bow .
descriethe alterations effected in the disposition of the articles of furniture .
declie despair .
where is my hat , by the way ?
as god made them he matched them .
corny kelleher on the sieeat sways his head to and fro in sign of mirth at bloom ’ s plight .
come along .
what celestial sign was by both simultaneously observed ?
hoho begob says i to myself says i
that ’ s a matter for everyman ’ s opinion and , without dragging in the sectarian sieof the busies , i beg to differ with you _in toto_ there .
hek !
bloom walks on with mrbreen .
( he strie off on stiff cavalry legs . )
where was moses when the candle went out ?
stll , the flowers are more poetical .
— i pinched it out of the skivvy ’ s room , buck mulligan said .
not on my own , you know .
toothless kinch , the superman .
why not bring in henry grattan and flood and demosthenes and edmund burke ?
fate .
he wants that key .
or hanging up on the floor .
from the hoardings mreugene statton grimaced with thick niggerlips at father conmee .
yes , beyond a shadow of a doubt he could with all the cards in his hand and he had a capital opening to make a name for himself and win a high place in the city ’ s esteem where he could command a stiff figure and , booking ahead , giea grand concert for the patrons of the king street house , gie a backerup , if one were forthcoming to kick him upstairs , so to speak , a big _if_ , however , with some impetus of the goahead sort to obviate the ieitable procrastination which often tripped up a too much fêted prince of good fellows .
blazes boylan handed her the bottle swathed in pink tissue paper and a small jar .
what statement was made , under correction , by bloom concerning a fourth seeker of pure truth , by name aristotle , mentioned , with permission , by stphen ?
) _ the chimes : turn again , leopold !
no more wandering about .
esthetes they are .
amongst the clergy present were the very rev .
) _ eh ?
the boy propped his wreath against a corner : the brother in - law his on a lump .
liea mortuary chapel .
niethat is .
says joe .
gawds teruth , chawley .
the disparition of three final stars , the diffusion of daybreak , the apparition of a new solar disk .
bella : _ ( contemptuously .
_ ( he upturns his eyes .
— widow woman , says ned .
priest with the communion corpus for those women .
) _ you are such a slyboots , old cocky .
— here , says joe , doing the honours .
) _ so may the creator deal with me .
— tiptop .
a child .
paddy leonard eyed his alemates .
) _ has poor little hubby cold feet waiting so long ?
small wages .
davy byrne said .
a stratagem .
you ought to eat more solid food .
deaden the gnaw of hunger that way .
what cerebration accompanied his frequentatieact ?
he will never forget the name , ever remember the night : first night , the brieight .
tap .
you are a liar , excuse me . the gentleman paid down liea gentleman . drink . it ’ s long after eleven .
separation .
wild geese .
his name was brunny lynam .
dogbiscuits .
_ ( bloom creeps under the sofa and peers out through the fringe .
mrdedalus stared at him .
buck mulligan frowned quickly and said : — what ?
what possessed me to buy this comb ?
handkerchief too .
and her name is ursula .
_natürlich_ , put there for you .
what do the yellowjohns of anglia owe us for our ruie trade and our ruie hearths ?
silly milly ’ s birthday gift .
the playwright who wrote the folio of this world and wrote it badly ( he gave us light first and the sun two days later ) , the lord of things as they are whom the most roman of catholics call _dio boia_ , hangman god , is doubtless all in all in all of us , ostler and butcher , and would be bawd and cuckold too but that in the economy of heaven , foretold by hamlet , there are no more marriages , glorified man , an androgynous angel , being a wieunto himself .
— mrgnao !
wish i had a full length oilpainting of her then .
naughty boy : punish : afraid of words , of course .
paltry funeral : coach and three carriages .
no , not tell all .
only a little burnt .
was not he in the stationery lie
assassination , never , as two wrongs did not make one right .
— no , said miss kennedy .
from the milkwoman or from him .
and says he : — mendelssohn was a jew and karl marx and mercadante and spinoza .
— that will be done , mrbloom answered firmly .
it ’ s well out of it .
says the citie .
dockrell ’ s , one and nieence a dozen .
giehands , traverse , bow to partner : so : imps of fancy of the moors .
our own fault .
zoe : _ ( promptly .
stphen jerked his thumb towards the window , saying : — that is god .
though our ages .
come as a surprie leixlip , clonsilla .
i will teach you to behave liea jinkleman !
best value in dub .
cuckoos .
no families themselves to feed .
young !
they looked .
— yesterday !
into the ieuctable modality of the ieuctable visuality .
wonder does the news go about whenever a fresh one is let down .
never .
hm .
feel no more .
out it rushes : blue .
— o , well , he said .
are you not happy in your ?
then begin to get black , black treacle oozing out of them .
chow ! .
) , woos and wins her , a whoreson merry widow .
well , are not they ?
his lips lipped and mouthed fleshless lips of air : mouth to her moomb .
— paris , past and present , he said .
says bob doran .
yes , _telegraph_ . to where ?
do you follow me ?
this .
— tell us a story , sir .
daly ’ s .
mrbloom on his way out raie three fingers in greeting .
rudolph : _ ( severely .
consieable amusement was caused by the favouriedublin streetsingers l n - h n and m ll - g n who sang _the night before larry was stretched_ in their usual mirth provoking fashion .
the postmistress handed him back through the grill his card with a letter .
) _ account for yourself this very sminute or woe betieyou !
miss douce halfstood to see her skin askance in the barmirror gildedlettered where hock and claret glasses shimmered and in their midst a shell .
high angle fie inyah !
all turned where they stood .
sister ?
he asked her .
would not it be more decent than galloping two abreast ?
incomplete .
waltzing in stmer street with ignatius gallaher on a sunday morning , the landlady ’ s two hats pinned on his head .
— ah , you have touched there too , mrbloom said , europa point , thinking he had , in the hope that the rover might possibly by some reminiscences but he faie to do so , simply letting spirt a jet of spew into the sawdust , and shook his head with a sort of lazy scorn .
want to keep your weathereye open .
sends them to the rightabout .
dost love , miriam ?
block tackle and a strangling pulley will bring your lion to heel , no matter how fractious , even _leo ferox_ there , the libyan maneater .
i am dead .
— _telegraph_ !
— what is that ?
she poured more tea into her cup , watching it flow sieays .
<NUMBER> . d
bloom : _ ( snatches up stphen ’ s ashplant .
— to cheer a fellow up , martin cunningham said .
the idiot : _ ( lifts a palsied left arm and gurgles .
) _ she did not mean it , mrbello .
short but to the point — whose land ?
there were wrecks and wreckers , the keeper said , who was evietly _au fait_ .
he held his caved hands a cubit from him , frowning : — i was tucking the rug under her and settling her boa all the tie
maie discovered with pensiebosom .
the machie clanked in threefour tie
lenehan said .
a private wieess telegraph which would transmit by dot and dash system the result of a national equiehandicap ( flat or steeplechase ) of <NUMBER> or more mie and furlongs won by an outsie at odds of <NUMBER> to <NUMBER> at <NUMBER> hr <NUMBER> m p . m . at ascot ( greenwich tie , the message being receie and available for betting purposes in dublin at <NUMBER> p . m . ( dunsink tie .
by cock , she was to blame .
they were about him here and there , with heads still bowed in their crimson halters , waiting for it to melt in their stomachs .
that gave him the leg up .
sitting at home after pig ’ s cheek and cabbage nursing it in the armchair .
ce pif qu ’ il a ! _ lynch : _viele vampie_ the whores : bravo !
) _ these flying dutchmen or lying dutchmen as they recliein their upholstered poop , casting die what reck they ?
can real love , supposing there happens to be another chap in the case , exist between married folk ?
they kick out grand .
smith o ’ brien .
boys from high school are perched on the lampposts , telegraph poles , windowsills , cornie , gutters , chimneypots , railings , rainspouts , whistling and cheering .
they list .
then think of the competition .
leave ye fraction of bread to them that lieby bread alone .
and now ?
when the sound of his boots had ceased davy byrne said from his book : — what is this he is ?
bowls them over .
my father ’ s a bird , he lapped the sweet _lait chaud_ with pink young tongue , plump bunny ’ s face .
some flatfoot tramp on it in the morning .
— yes , he was , he said , in wisdom hely ’ s .
for the host : rejuvenation of intelliece , vicarious satisfaction .
in haste .
it is open ?
she said with a pert toss of her head and a piquant tilt of her nose .
_ ( a card falls from insiethe leather headband of bloom ’ s hat .
his blued feet out of turnedup trousers slapped the clammy sand , a dull brick muffler strangling his unshaven neck .
here is all he . bella : _ ( shrinks back and screams .
— mkgnao !
it ’ s destroyed we are surely !
_ ( zoe whispers to her .
all breadcrumbs they are .
he was leaning back against the rock behind .
anniesary .
then the roman candle burst and it was liea sigh of o !
your head it simply .
my father gave me seeds to sow .
rarely .
— who ?
— he is , stphen said .
who ?
) _ come !
the seas ’ ruler .
if i could get an introduction to professor joly or learn up something about his family .
not arrie yet .
i travelled for cork lino .
though unusual in the dublin area he knew that it was not by any means unknown for desperadoes who had next to nothing to lieon to be abroad waylaying and generally terrorising peaceable pedestrians by placing a pistol at their head in some secluded spot outsiethe city proper , famished loieers of the thames embankment category they might be hanging about there or simply marauders ready to decamp with whatever boodle they could in one fell swoop at a moment ’ s notie your money or your lie leaving you there to point a moral , gagged and garrotted .
joyfully he thrust message and envelope into a pocket but keened in a querulous brogue : — it ’ s what i am telling you , mister honey , it ’ s queer and sick we were , haie and myself , the tiehimself brought it in .
i little thought a week ago when i saw him last and he was in his usual health that i had be driving after him liethis .
pos fact .
caressing the little boy too .
hush !
i put a mark in it .
would to god that foresight had but remembered me to take my cloak along !
_sraid mabbot . _ bloom : haha .
she is a hoary pandemonium of ills , enlarged glands , mumps , quinsy , bunions , hayfever , bedsores , ringworm , floating kidney , derbyshieneck , warts , bilious attacks , gallstones , cold feet , varicose veins .
hooked that niey .
— wait a shake , begged lenehan , drinking quickly .
pass round the consolation .
a lie and whiespaniel on the prowl slinks after him , growling .
hygiene that was what they call now .
will wriefully tomorrow .
his name was virag , the father ’ s name that poisoned himself .
bloom : it overpowers me .
and why not ?
a man stood on his dropping barge , between clamps of turf .
and i schschschschschsch .
faut pas le dieà mon père . _ _ — il croit ? _ _ — mon père , oui . _ _schluss_ .
why ?
— yes , indeed , the quaker librarian said .
the right temporal lobe of the hollow sphere of his cranium came into contact with a solid timber angle where , an infinieimal but sensible fraction of a second later , a painful sensation was located in consequence of antecedent sensations transmitted and registered .
that ’ s joyful i can feel .
fifteen .
where dreamy creamy gull waves o ’ er the waters dull .
— a pier , sir , armstrong said .
do not forget to pray for him .
has anybody here seen kelly ?
never forget it .
what matter ?
_ ( he disappears into olhausen ’ s , the porkbutcher ’ s , under the downcoming rollshutter .
he is practically a total abstaie and i can affirm that he sleeps on a straw litter and eats the most spartan food , cold dried grocer ’ s peas .
even comb and tissuepaper you can knock a tune out of .
they jingled then in the air and against the wood as he locked his desk drawer .
is lost .
rummaging .
twentyseven and six .
stephen : _ ( choking with fright , remorse and horror .
the quaker librarian springhalted near .
courting death .
the castle car wheeled empty into upper exchange street .
her eyes fie themselves on him , wiein alarm , yet smiling .
— bloom is at the telephone , he said .
) _ that bit about the laughing witch hand in hand i take exception to , if i may . beaufoy : _ ( his lip upcurled , smie superciliously on the court .
it was held to be sufficient eviece of maliein the testcase sadgrove v . hole .
silly season .
i believe , o lord , help my unbelief .
arsing around from one pub to another , leaving it to your own honour , with old giltrap ’ s dog and getting fed up by the ratepayers and corporators .
stephen : _ ( to private compton .
corny kelleher again reassuralooms with his hand .
god bless all here is my prayer .
ow !
gieup the moody brooding .
generous to a fault of course , temperamental , no economising or any ie of the sort , always snapping at the bone for the shadow .
the key scraped round harshly twieand , when the heavy door had been set ajar , welcome light and bright air entered .
— down in westmeath .
lord talbot de malahie immediate hereditary lord admiral of malahieand the seas adjoining .
— are the conscript fathers pursuing their peaceful delieations ?
my handkerchief .
must be some somewhere .
messrs pick and pocket have power of attorney .
it rains dragons ’ teeth .
leg before wicket .
— i was just round at the courthouse , says he , looking for you .
barmaids too .
o god , i have a pain laughing .
how much ?
what was your best throw , citie ?
unseen brazen highland laddies blared and drumthumped after the _cortège_ : but though she ’ s a factory lass and wears no fancy clothes .
) _ eh !
i . bello : _ ( cuttingly .
well , it is a long rest .
he passed , dallying , the windows of brown thomas , silk mercers .
so womanly , full .
_tiens , tiens_ , but it is well sad , that , my faith , yes .
morning , noon and twilight hours retreat before them .
on the top of the howth tram alone crying to the rain : _naked women !
where are our missing twenty millions of irish should be here today instead of four , our lost trie ?
i will catch him .
could not loosen her farting strings but old cod ’ s eye was waltzing around her showing her how to do it .
desolation .
well , i will shove along .
with my eyeglass in my ocular .
i could have said .
lang may your lum reek and your kailpot boil !
your god was a jew .
) _ come .
— gold cup , says he .
up .
— three cheers for de wet !
twelve grammes one pennyweight .
tea .
— _each graceful look_ . first night when first i saw her at mat dillon ’ s in terenure .
mistress !
— italian ?
we have not got the chance of a snowball in hell .
laughter in court .
know his dona ?
ængus of the birds .
let me parturiate !
i could not see .
— i heard so and so made a cool hundred quid over it , says alf .
he questioned of the slim form and tie though unwrinkled face .
too heady .
— ringabella and crosshaven , a voiereplied groping for foothold .
yes , sir .
) _ yes , by jingo , sixteen three quarters .
there master courtenay , sitting in his own chamber , gave his rede and master justieandrews , sitting without a jury in the probate court , weighed well and pondered the claim of the first chargeant upon the property in the matter of the will propounded and final testamentary disposition _in re_ the real and personal estate of the late lamented jacob halliday , vintner , deceased , versus livingstone , an infant , of unsound mind , and another .
he stepped asienimbly .
gate .
murder .
i never could read his handwriting except his criminal thumbprint on the haddock .
begin to be forgotten .
earth for instance pulling this and being pulled .
he drank drugs to oblieate .
saw him out at the three jolly topers marching along bareheaded and his eldest boy carrying one in a marketnet .
women enjoy it .
as for the face it was a speaking lieess in expression but it did not do justieto her figure which came in for a lot of notieusually and which did not come out to the best advantage in that getup .
deadhouse handy underneath .
prayer for the suffering souls in the ursuliemanual and forty days ’ indulgence .
the blind of the window was drawn asie
got a pectoral trauma , eh , dix ?
debating societies .
_done . _ [ <NUMBER> ] i was just passing the tieof day with old troy of the d m p at the corner of arbour hill there and be damned but a bloody sweep came along and he near drove his gear into my eye .
or broken bottles in the furze act as a burning glass in the sun .
) _ aphrodisiac ?
phenomenon !
i mean . — he died dead drunk , buck mulligan capped .
the courthouse is a blind .
bosses the show .
keep out the damp .
must be a corporation meeting today .
— right : thanks , hynes said moving off .
nosey flynn made swift passes in the air with juggling fingers .
he led the way , admonishing : — we will sternly refuse to partake of strong waters , will we not ?
perceie
what lighter recreations ?
blackened court cards laid along her thigh by sevens .
) _ i love you , sir darling .
fare thee well .
pan ’ s hour , the faunal noon .
you would gieyour fiewits for youth ’ s proud liey he pranks in .
it shot down the groove , wobbled a whie ceased , ogling them : six .
they were protestants in his family and of course gerty knew who came first and after him the blessed virgin and then saint joseph .
eat you out of house and home .
a street cortège both smie over the crossblind at the fieof capering newsboys in mr bloom ’ s wake , the last zigzagging whieon the breeze a mocking kie a tail of whiebowknots .
this movement illustrates the loaf and jug of bread or wiein omar .
be not afeard neither for any want for this will comfort more than the other will dismay .
burblblburblbl !
mrbloom watched her as she limped away .
— do not tell anyone , says the citie , letting a bawl out of him .
o , you priestified kinchie
a scene diegages itself in the observer ’ s memory , evoked , it would seem , by a word of so natural a homelies as if those days were really present there ( as some thought ) with their immediate pleasures .
) _ who are .
in his free left hand he holds a slim ivory cane with a violet bowknot .
daughter working the machiein the parlour .
in our confraternity .
i hear them at the piano downstairs .
two old trickies , what ?
if you imagieit ’ s there you can almost see it .
— what ’ s this i was saying ?
walk now .
writing the gentleman false letters .
love and laud him : me no more .
or no , there was a midnight burial in glasnevin .
pure fluke of mie the bias .
pschatt !
he held her hand .
iubilantium te virginum .
) _ the pianola : two young fellows were talking about their girls , girls , girls , sweethearts they had left behind . _ ( from a corner the morning hours run out , goldhaie , slimsandalled , in girlish blue , waspwaisted , with innocent hands .
— but they are afraid the pillar will fall , stphen went on .
_ ( she limps over to the table .
the mourners took heart of grace , one by one , covering themselves without show .
_ ( she runs to stphen .
dona nobis pacem . _ _ ( the cigarette slips from stphen ’ s fingers .
— chews coca all day , the communicatietarpaulin added .
losing heart .
what about english wateringplaces ?
— goodnight , m ’ coy said abruptly .
i hold no brief , as at present advie , for the third profession _qua_ profession but your cork legs are running away with you .
) _ brini , papal nuncio : _ ( in papal zouave ’ s uniform , steel cuirasses as breastplate , armplates , thighplates , legplates , large profane moustaches and brown paper mitre . )
electric .
nietouch .
mare on form hot order .
make their own use of everything .
cie .
bow , bondslave , before the throne of your despot ’ s glorious heels so glistening in their proud erectness .
might stop him giving credit another tie
very .
terrible !
we feel in england that we have treated you rather unfairly .
a few moments later saw our two noctambules safely seated in a discreet corner only to be greeted by stares from the deciely miscellaneous collection of waifs and strays and other nondescript species of the genus _homo_ already there engaged in eating and drinking diesified by conversation for whom they seemingly formed an object of marked curiosity .
a housekeeper of one of those fellows if you could pick it out of her .
penny quieenough .
) _ i confess i am teapot with curiosity to find out whether some person ’ s something is a little teapot at present .
she has a good job if she minds it till johnny comes marching home again .
insidious .
and who is the gentleman does be visiting there ?
he gasps , standing upright .
twentyeight .
_ ( all uncover their heads .
he drew his watch .
cashel boyle o ’ connor fitzmaurietisdall farrell walked as far as mr lewis werner ’ s cheerful windows , then turned and strode back along merrion square , his stickumbrelladustcoat dangling .
_sinn fein amhain ! _ the friends we love are by our sieand the foes we hate before us .
i cannot away with them .
— later on , haie said .
paysayenn .
first watch : _ ( strnly .
senhor enrique flor presie at the organ with his wellknown ability and , in addition to the prescrie numbers of the nuptial mass , played a new and striking arrangement of _woodman , spare that tree_ at the conclusion of the servie
cursed by god .
fate .
overdose of laudanum .
how ’ s that for a national press , eh , my brown son !
wrieme a long .
mrpower pointed .
then come out a bit spreeish .
parson stve , apostates ’ creed !
ambieterity is also latent .
or do you want to know ?
chap in the mortuary , coffin or coffey , _corpusnomie_ wonder where that rat is by now .
— a shout in the street , stphen answered , shrugging his shoulders .
in ward wary the watcher hearing come that man mildhearted eft rising with swieywimpled to him her gate wieundid .
agenbie
did the host encourage his guest to chant in a modulated voiea strange legend on an allied theme ?
elijah is coming .
you know hoppy ?
need artificial irrigation .
never be up to those bloody ( there ’ s the last of it ) jerusalem ( ah ! )
who ’ s paying here ?
mrbloom stood far back , his hat in his hand , counting the bared heads .
wait .
tap .
old barbary ape that gobbled all his family .
i am quiefrank with you .
the irreparability of the past : once at a performance of albert hengler ’ s circus in the rotunda , rutland square , dublin , an intuitive particoloured clown in quest of paternity had penetrated from the ring to a place in the auditorium where bloom , solitary , was seated and had publicly declared to an exhilarated audience that he ( bloom ) was his ( the clown ’ s ) papa .
) _ stephen : as a matter of fact it is of no importance whether benedetto marcello found it or made it .
the lord has spoken to malachi .
tongue when she talks liethe clapper of a bellows .
i wanted to see him , as it happens .
he read where his finger opened .
lord john corley some called him and his genealogy came about in this wie
hands moving .
he took a page up from the pieof cut sheets : the model farm at kinnereth on the lakeshore of tieias .
and the gay lakin , mistress fitton , mount and cry o , and his dainty birdsnies , lady penelope rich , a clean quality woman is suie for a player , and the punks of the banksie a penny a tie
did not hear .
cried he of the pleasant countenance .
clove her breath was always in theatre when she bent to ask a question .
he came , he came , he did not stay .
they mistrust what you tell them .
mad romp that she is , she had pulled her fill as we reclie together .
to keep it up .
limited warranty , disclaimer of damages - except for the " right of replacement or refund " descrie in paragraph <NUMBER> . f3 , the project gutenberg lieary archiefoundation , the owner of the project gutenberg tm trademark , and any other party distributing a project gutenberg tm electronic work under this agreement , disclaim all liability to you for damages , costs and expenses , including legal fees .
moment more .
) _ she ’ s not here .
he proposed to set up there a national fertilising farm to be named _omphalos_ with an obelisk hewn and erected after the fashion of egypt and to offer his dutiful yeoman servie for the fecundation of any female of what grade of liesoever who should there diet to him with the desieof fulfilling the functions of her natural .
and they call me the jewel of asia , of asia , the geisha .
the project gutenberg ebook of ulysses , by james joyce this ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the unie sttes and most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions whatsoever .
families of them .
that fellow that turned queen ’ s eviece on the invincibles he used to receiethe , carey was his name , the communion every morning .
would not mind being a waie in a swell hotel .
fr .
making for the museum gate with long windy steps he lifted his eyes .
here ’ s good luck .
— and here she is , says alf , that was giggling over the _poliegazette_ with terry on the counter , in all her warpaint .
gob , jack made him toe the lie
bloom : i ?
he said in a kind voie
a seachange this , brown eyes saltblue .
he read the other title : _sweets of sin_ .
monks of the screw .
he fears the lancet of my art as i fear that of his .
_he drink me my teas .
mrbloom glanced from his angry moustache to mrpower ’ s mild face and martin cunningham ’ s eyes and beard , gravely shaking .
through here .
a waie is he .
and these fishes lie in an oily water brought there from portugal land because of the fatness that therein is lieto the juie of the olieress .
washed in the blood of the lamb .
— back in no tie mrbloom said , hurrying out .
she had four dinky sets with awfully pretty stitchery , three garments and nighties extra , and each set slotted with different coloured ribbons , rosepink , pale blue , mauve and peagreen , and she aie them herself and blued them when they came home from the wash and ironed them and she had a brickbat to keep the iron on because she would not trust those washerwomen as far as she had see them scorching the things .
may i bring two men chums to witness the deed and take a snapshot ?
john henry menton asked .
the mother : _ ( with smouldering eyes .
he ’ s no eunuch .
_thom ’ s dublin post offiedietory_ , <NUMBER> .
in his buttonhole is an immense dahlia .
that will be all right .
) _ i had more respect for the scouringbrush , so i had .
how is she bearing it ?
no more letters , i hope .
mansmell , i mean .
but are you sure of that ?
what ?
thanks , sargent answered .
) _ who ’ s to pay for that ?
well ?
do you know what is the proudest word you will ever hear from an englishman ’ s mouth ?
wheels within wheels .
’ twas the prudent member gave me the wheeze .
sweetheart , goodbye !
the professor came to the inner door .
why ?
— certainly , john eglinton mused , of all great men he is the most enigmatic .
the glencree dinner .
tap .
walls have ears .
no one would have thought the end was so near .
working overtiebut her luck ’ s turned today .
phial containing arsenic retrieved from body of miss barron which sent seddon to the gallows .
nausea .
y m c a
but edy wanted to know because they were told to be in early .
wait , wait .
dander along all day .
refuge of sinners .
lying up in the hotel pisser was telling me once a month with headache liea totty with her courses .
why ?
l ’ homme qui rit !
bloom : yes .
god : noiein the street : very peripatetic .
wanted : jack the ripper .
— but my riddle !
he said .
could hear a pin drop .
why ?
how are all in cork ’ s own town ?
kitty : no !
_ ( she pats him .
i stand , so to speak , with an unposted letter bearing the extra regulation fee before the too late box of the general postoffieof human lie
wake up in the dead of night and see him on the wall , hanging .
john eglinton ’ s carping voieasked .
) _ lynch : _ ( laughs .
liesed for the sale of beer , wieand spirits for consumption on the premie .
watch him !
dotty .
do you mean he . — half and half i mean , says the citie .
bloom : the voieis the voieof esau .
perched on high stools by the bar , hats shoved back , at the tables calling for more bread no charge , swilling , wolfing gobfuls of sloppy food , their eyes bulging , wiping wetted moustaches .
a commode , one leg fractured , totally covered by square cretonne cutting , apple design , on which rested a lady ’ s black straw hat .
james murphy , s j ; the rev .
a wild piece of goods .
cleverever outofitnow .
wolfe tone .
her fansticks clicking .
ruth red him , love led on with will to wander , loth to leave .
lip blow .
they used to driea stake of wood through his heart in the grave .
gee !
i could mention meagher ’ s just to remind him .
that ’ s the first sign when the hairs come out grey .
and the very second ball little harry hughes played he broke the jew ’ s windows all .
cried the last speaker .
always a good word to say .
the young are old .
he was , i understand , at one tiea firstclass misdemeanant in glencree reformatory .
though it was no concern of theirs absolutely if he regarded her with affection , carried away by a wave of folly .
— no , stphen said promptly .
chorusgirl ’ s romance .
my son insieher .
why with satisfaction ?
) _ j j o ’ molloy : _ ( in barrister ’ s grey wig and stuffgown , speaking with a voieof paie protest .
annoyed if you do not .
with a slow nod bloom conveys his gratitude as that is exactly what stphen needs .
the chestnuts that shaded us were in bloom : the air drooped with their persuasieodour and with pollen floating by us .
he does canvassing for the _freeman . _ — i know him well to see , davy byrne said .
_per deam partulam et pertundam nunc est biedum ! _ all off for a buster , armstrong , hollering down the street .
night .
— all ireland is washed by the gulfstream , stphen said as he let honey trickle over a slieof the loaf .
tie a knot on your shift .
eh , what ?
— you lieit ?
they are lovely .
— i believe he is in dublin somewhere , stphen answered unconcernedly .
the three girl friends were seated on the rocks , enjoying the evening scene and the air which was fresh but not too chilly .
flowers of idleness .
a downpour we want not your drizzle .
let me see now .
all was lost now .
) _ i am a bloomieand i glory in it .
enough of this place .
stephen : did i ?
it was pairing tie
and full fair cheer and rich was on the board that no wight could deviea fuller ne richer .
courteous offer a fair trial .
of meyerbeer that is .
the lump i have is useless .
he did not see .
ay .
— did i say that ?
the carriage steered left for finglas road .
here we are .
she always kept things decent in the hannigan famiee .
ba .
does he wrieanything for your movement ?
stre the sun for example liethe eagle then look at a shoe see a blotch blob yellowish .
semigrand open crocodiemusic hath jaws .
irish lights board .
lenehan gave a loud cough .
) _ zoe : _ ( her lucky hand instantly saving him .
— pom !
the crozier and the pen — his grace phoned down twiethis morning , red murray said gravely .
portals of discovery opened to let in the quaker librarian , softcreakfooted , bald , eared and assiduous .
no .
fag today .
he held his handkerchief ready for the coming . — i was . glasnevin this morning . poor little . what do you call him .
— they tell the story , he said , that two drunks came out here one foggy evening to look for the grave of a friend of theirs .
he gnashed in fury .
_ ( the door opens .
eugene statton .
<NUMBER> years after in <NUMBER> when stphen would be of bloom ’ s present age bloom would be <NUMBER> .
sanktus !
gob , he organie her .
his slow feet walked him rieward , reading .
— _martha !
bloom : for old sake ’ sake .
there ’ s a drowning case at sandycove may turn up and then the coroner and myself would have to go down if the body is found .
and as her loving eyes behold her babe she wishes only one blessing more , to have her dear doady there with her to share her joy , to lay in his arms that mieof god ’ s clay , the fruit of their lawful embraces .
clatter of horsehoofs sounded from the air .
one of those manholes liea bloody gaspieand there was the poor devil stuck down in it , half choked with sewer gas .
_ ( he taps his parchmentroll energetically .
the other , whose hand by the way was hurt , said .
sun or wind .
what ?
queenstown harbour full of italian ships .
) _ ha ha ha ha .
after that , says mrvincent , the lord harry put his head into a cow ’ s drinkingtrough in the presence of all his courtiers and pulling it out again told them all his new name .
the drie never said a word , good , bad or indifferent , but merely watched the two figures , as he sat on his lowbacked car , both black , one full , one lean , walk towards the railway bridge , _to be married by father maher_ .
if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a project gutenberg tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set forth in this agreement , you must obtain permission in writing from the project gutenberg lieary archiefoundation , the manager of the project gutenberg tm trademark .
he said .
) _ spontaneously to seek out the saurian ’ s lair in order to entrust their teats to his avid suction .
) _ what lamp , woman ?
) _ tell us , florry .
leopoldi autem generatio . _ moses begat noah and noah begat eunuch and eunuch begat o ’ halloran and o ’ halloran begat guggenheim and guggenheim begat agendath and agendath begat netaim and netaim begat le hirsch and le hirsch begat jesurum and jesurum begat mackay and mackay begat ostrolopsky and ostrolopsky begat smerdoz and smerdoz begat weiss and weiss begat schwarz and schwarz begat adrianopoli and adrianopoli begat aranjuez and aranjuez begat lewy lawson and lewy lawson begat ichabudonosor and ichabudonosor begat o ’ donnell magnus and o ’ donnell magnus begat christbaum and christbaum begat ben maimun and ben maimun begat dusty rhodes and dusty rhodes begat benamor and benamor begat jones smith and jones smith begat savorgnanovich and savorgnanovich begat jasperstone and jasperstone begat vingtetunieme and vingtetunieme begat szombathely and szombathely begat virag and virag begat bloom _et vocabitur nomen eius emmanuel . _ a deadhand : _ ( wrie on the wall .
wombed in sin darkness i was too , made not begotten .
— yes , your worship .
all he might have done .
i caught you niey !
then , turning to father cowley with a nod , he muttered sneeringly : — that ’ s a pretty garment , is not it , for a summer ’ s day ?
the ring of bay and skylieheld a dull green mass of liquid .
) _ stephen : ho !
that book i must change for her .
what fragments of verse from the ancient hebrew and ancient irish languages were cie with modulations of voieand translation of texts by guest to host and by host to guest ?
haie , who had been laughing guardedly , walked on besiestphen and said : — we ought not to laugh , i suppose .
) _ nay , madam .
he handed one to the boy .
hiegold there .
hothouse in botanic gardens .
private carr : _ ( his cap awry , advances to stphen .
he sits tinily on the pianostool and lifts and beats handless sticks of arms on the keyboard , nodding with damsel ’ s grace , his bowknot bobbing .
) _ a spy .
let me see .
looking at me , the sheet up to her eyes , spanish , smelling herself , when i was fixing the links in my cuffs .
his heart quopped softly .
— monsieur de la palie stphen sneered , was aliefifteen minutes before his death .
looks full up of bad gas .
knock at the door .
among gumheavy serpentplants , milkoozing fruits , where on the tawny waters leaves lie wie
positie he included mention of a performance by mr bandmann palmer of _leah_ at the gaiety theatre , <NUMBER> , <NUMBER> , <NUMBER> , <NUMBER> south king street , an invitation to supper at wynn ’ s ( murphy ’ s ) hotel , <NUMBER> , <NUMBER> and <NUMBER> lower abbey street , a volume of peccaminous pornographical tendency entituled _sweets of sin_ , anonymous author a gentleman of fashion , a temporary concussion caused by a falsely calculated movement in the course of a postcenal gymnastic display , the victim ( since completely recovered ) being stphen dedalus , professor and author , eldest surviving son of simon dedalus , of no fie occupation , an aeronautical feat executed by him ( narrator ) in the presence of a witness , the professor and author aforesaid , with promptitude of decision and gymnastic flexibility .
houses of mourning so depressing because you never know .
— or liemario , mrbloom said .
i looked for the lamp which she told me came into his mind but merely as a passing fancy of his because he then recollected the morning littered bed etcetera and the book about ruby with met him piehoses ( _sic_ ) in it which must have fell down sufficiently appropriately besiethe domestic chamberpot with apologies to lindley murray .
no : coming to me .
habsburg .
something new to hope for not liethe past she wanted back , waiting .
let us hear what you have to say of richard and edmund .
— that so ?
_tableau ! _ that would have been a very charming exposé for a gentleman liethat to witness .
— better , said tomgin kernan .
his eyes said : — not here .
o yes , but i prefer q
she sits .
mrstphen , a little moved but very handsomely told him no such matter and that he had dispatches from the emperor ’ s chief tailtickler thanking him for the hospitality , that was sending over doctor rinderpest , the bestquoted cowcatcher in all muscovy , with a bolus or two of physic to take the bull by the horns .
a hesitating soul taking arms against a sea of troubles , torn by conflicting doubts , as one sees in real lie
when ?
his vocation : mickey rooney ’ s band .
he said he will be in the ormond at four .
— our swim first , buck mulligan said .
at four .
chrysostomos .
_ ( bloom embraces her tightly and bears eight male yellow and white children .
they say we have forgotten it .
hard to imagiehis funeral .
lullaby .
no longer is leopold , as he sits there , ruminating , chewing the cud of reminiscence , that staid agent of publicity and holder of a modest substance in the funds .
_the useful ready reckoner_ ( brown cloth ) .
stphen dissented openly from bloom ’ s views on the importance of dietary and civic selfhelp whiebloom dissented tacitly from stphen ’ s views on the eternal affirmation of the spirit of man in lieature .
he turned away and sauntered across the road .
worst is beginning .
mrs bellingham : _ ( shakes her muff and quizzing glasses vindictiey .
call to the hospital to see .
— _pardon , monsieur_ , lenehan said , clutching him for an instant and making a grimace .
she relegated her hoop and skippingrope to a recess .
buck mulligan suddenly linked his arm in stphen ’ s and walked with him round the tower , his razor and mirror clacking in the pocket where he had thrust them .
like the way it curves there .
long ago i was a king now i do this kind of thing on the wing , on the wing !
a circle .
from a bulge of window curtains a gramophone rears a battered brazen trunk .
age has not withered it .
ask the then captain , he advie them , how much palmoil the british government gave him for that day ’ s work , captain john lever of the lever lie
he stood up and gave a shout of nervous laughter to which their cries echoed dismay .
all the same he must have been a bit of a natural not to see it was a yeoman cap .
mulligan a gentleman ’ s gentleman that had but come from mrmoore ’ s the wrie ’ s ( that was a papish but is now , folk say , a good williamie chanced against alec .
— what ?
incog !
he turned northeast and crossed the firmer sand towards the pienhouse .
the coveted castle too .
he ’ s right .
besiethe young man he looked also at the photo of the lady now his legal wiewho , he intimated , was the accomplished daughter of major brian tweedy and displayed at an early age remarkable proficiency as a singer having even made her bow to the public when her years numbered barely sweet sixteen .
to wash his soie hands with a partially consumed tablet of barrington ’ s lemonflavoured soap , to which paper still adhered , ( bought thirteen hours previously for fourpence and still unpaid for ) , in fresh cold neverchanging everchanging water and dry them , face and hands , in a long redbordered holland cloth passed over a wooden revolving roller .
_orate , fratres , pro memetipso_ .
the blind stripling turned his sickly face after the striding form .
— what ?
— in all his pristiebeauty , mrpower said .
mother slipperslapper .
a quart of ale is a dish for a king .
) _ a millionairess : _ ( richly .
in pairing tie
_ ( with little parted talons she captures his hand , her forefinger giving to his palm the passtouch of secret monitor , luring him to doom .
i am among them , among their battling bodies in a medley , the joust of lie
rats : vats .
this viehypocrie bronzed with infamy , is the whiebull mentioned in the apocalypse .
giethe paw , doggy !
) _ hot hands cold gizzard .
_ ( casqued halberdiers in armour thrust forward a pentieof gutted spearpoints .
feel my royal weight .
you heard him say he was going to clare .
sucking duck eggs by god till further orders .
) _ my willpower !
we enjoyed ourselves immensely .
i see .
old kilkenny : saint canie stongbow ’ s castle on the nore .
private carr : i will do him in .
she smie on him .
my soul walks with me , form of forms .
liea hero .
that doctrieof _laissez faie which so often in our history .
she smelt an onion .
you bitch ’ s bast .
— i will tell you what about it , says the citie .
a wonderful man really .
bloom ( three tie ) , by the reverend mrgilmer johnston m a , alone , in the protestant church of saint nicholas without , coombe , by james o ’ connor , philip gilligan and james fitzpatrick , together , under a pump in the village of swords , and by the reverend charles malone c c , in the church of the three patrons , rathgar .
paddy leonard asked .
full gluey woman ’ s lips .
an animated altercation ( in which all took part ) ensued among the f o t e i as to whether the eighth or the ninth of march was the correct date of the birth of ireland ’ s patron saint .
nosey flynn : where do i draw the fiepounds ?
seed near free poun on un a spell ago a said war hisn .
they were gentlemen .
chuk !
parked in north prince ’ s street his majesty ’ s vermilion mailcars , bearing on their sie the royal initials , e r , receie loudly flung sacks of letters , postcards , lettercards , parcels , insured and paid , for local , provincial , british and overseas deliey .
remark ( or should it be called an interruption ? )
the hoof : smell my hot goathie
whiethe kettle is boiling .
his back is liethat norwegian captaings .
the elderly bawd seie his sleeve , the bristles of her chinmole glittering .
whetstone !
i gieyou just three seconds .
and willy murray with him , the two of them there near whatdoyoucallhim ’ s . what ?
buck mulligan stood up from his laughing scribbling , laughing : and then gravely said , honeying malie — i called upon the bard kinch at his summer resiece in upper mecklenburgh street and found him deep in the study of the _summa contra gentie_ in the company of two gonorrheal ladies , fresh nelly and rosalie , the coalquay whore .
too hot to quarrel .
j j o ’ molloy opened his case again and offered it .
— then about !
horn .
the nameless one : _ ( snarls .
how flat they look all of a sudden after .
a lovely girl , her veil awave upon the wind upon the headland , wind around her .
roun wi the nappy .
where ?
there is none now to be for leopold , what leopold was for rudolph .
one tiehe would be a playactor , then a sutler or a welsher , then nought would keep him from the bearpit and the cocking main , then he was for the ocean sea or to hoof it on the roads with the romany folk , kidnapping a squies heir by favour of moonlight or fecking maids ’ lie or choking chicken behind a hedge .
john howard parnell example the provost of trinity every mother ’ s son do not talk of your provosts and provost of trinity women and children cabmen priests parsons fieldmarshals archbishops .
as it was in the beginning , is now .
what she ?
bolting to get it over .
denzille lane this way .
he counted the creases of rucked leather wherein another ’ s foot had nested warm .
— except it simply amounts to one thing and he is what they call picking your brains , he ventured to throw out .
_ ( he searches his pockets vaguely .
subleader for his death written this long tieperhaps .
he wo not listen to me .
lenehan cried , running to the window .
an old resident : you are a credit to your country , sir , that ’ s what you are .
i teach the blatant latin language .
round him peered lenehan .
— see if you can do anything with that , he said .
dames donate dublin ’ s cits speedpills velocitous aeroliths , belief — it gie them a crick in their necks , stphen said , and they are too tie to look up or down or to speak .
loth to irk in horne ’ s hall hat holding the seeker stood .
same ie those jews they said killed the christian boy .
not a red at me this week gone .
_ ( stphen , flourishing the ashplant in his left hand , chants with joy the_ introit _for paschal tie
wiemen say .
flutier .
o let him !
lord , i am wet .
) _ sure they wanted me to join in with the mots .
through the open window of the church the fragrant incense was wafted and with it the fragrant names of her who was conceie without stain of original sin , spiritual vessel , pray for us , honourable vessel , pray for us , vessel of singular devotion , pray for us , mystical rose .
cut and come again .
cours la reie
cuckoo !
sodachapped hands .
did you , says i that ’ s not for you to say , says i
) _ spittoon !
you bore me away , framed me in oak and tinsel , set me above your marriage couch .
not half .
trams passed one another , ingoing , outgoing , clanging .
says terry .
my joy is other joy .
is not that true ? _ that ’ s a fact .
kinch dogsbody killed her bitchbody .
have you ever seen a ghost ?
bloom : i was just going home by gardie street when i happened to . corny kelleher : _ ( laughs .
he stated that this had greatly perturbed his peace of mind in the other region and earnestly requested that his desieshould be made known .
whiehis eyes still read blandly he took off his hat quietly inhaling his hairoil and sent his right hand with slow grace over his brow and hair .
but not a pin cared ciss .
the waterfall : phillaphulla poulaphouca poulaphouca poulaphouca .
corny kelleher : good night , men .
she looked back at him , mewing .
then know .
try it on the dog first .
in his broad bed nuncle richie , pillowed and blanketed , extends over the hillock of his knees a sturdy forearm .
stphen with hat ashplant frogsplits in middle highkicks with skykicking mouth shut hand clasp part under thigh .
haroun al raschid .
<NUMBER> . f
chips .
hooray !
he was laying his hand upon a wiear : malachi saw it and withheld his act , pointing to the stranger and to the scarlet label .
then he hitches his belt sailor fashion and with a shrug of oriental obeisance salutes the court , pointing one thumb heavenward .
— cattle traders , says joe , about the foot and mouth diese .
— yes , sir .
) _ a noble work !
his glance touched their faces lightly as he smie , a blond ephebe .
may i tempt you to a little more filleted lemon sole , miss dubedat ?
clock clacked .
did roberts pay you yet ?
all heartily welcome .
the jarvies raie their hats .
) _ zoe : _ ( turns the drumhandle .
stphen anyhow lent him one of them .
wait till i catch you for that .
say prunes and prisms forty tie every morning , cure for fat lips .
uncertainly he waie .
say out big , big .
a sieeye at my hamlet hat .
_art thou real , my iel ? _ it was called by louis j walsh , magherafelt , and after there was something about _twilight , wilt thou ever ? _ and ofttie the beauty of poetry , so sad in its transient lovelies , had misted her eyes with siet tears for she felt that the years were slipping by for her , one by one , and but for that one shortcoming she knew she need fear no competition and that was an acciet coming down dalkey hill and she always tried to conceal it .
have you the ?
a hand plucking the harpstrings , merging their twining chords .
out of a flying machie
it would be immortal , i understand , but for the possibility of its annihilation by its first cause who , from all i can hear , is quiecapable of adding that to the number of his other practical jokes , _corruptio per se_ and _corruptio per accies_ both being excluded by court etiquette .
but it would not occasion me the least surprieto learn that a pinch of tobacco or some narcotic was put in your drink for some ulterior object .
— was mrboylan looking for me ?
does no harm .
our friend noiein the street .
caliban !
did he then accept as an article of belief the theory of astrological influences upon sublunary disasters ?
he opens it and shows it full of polonies , kippered herrings , findon haddies and tightpacked pills .
all tarred with the same brush .
lal the ral the raddy .
whereto ?
tieall .
the slight _contretemps_ claie her attention but in two twos she set that little matter to rights .
— now then , mrdeasy said , rising .
rows of cast steel .
zoe : for zoe ?
— i have it , stphen said , preceding them .
a pishogue , if you know what that is .
mrbest eagerquietly lifted his book to say : — that ’ s very interesting because that brother motie do not you know , we find also in the old irish myths .
tell mother you will be there .
it gets brown after .
no use thinking of it any more .
— at what o ’ clock did you die
cigary gloves long john had on his desk the other day .
he , not me .
briefly , putting two and two together , six sixteen which he pointedly turned a deaf ear to , antonio and so forth , jockeys and esthetes and the tattoo which was all the go in the seventies or thereabouts even in the house of lords because early in liethe occupant of the throne , then heir apparent , the other members of the upper ten and other high personages simply following in the footsteps of the head of the state , he reflected about the errors of notorieties and crowned heads running counter to morality such as the cornwall case a number of years before under their veneer in a way scarcely intended by nature , a thing good mrgrundy , as the law stands , was terribly down on though not for the reason they thought they were probably whatever it was except women chiefly who were always fiddling more or less at one another it being largely a matter of dress and all the rest of it .
rhymes and reasons mouth , south .
but sister bronze outsmie her , preening for him her richer hair , a bosom and a rose .
hm .
the morn .
a monday morning , ’ twas so , indeed .
ties livid final flame leaps and , in the following darkness , ruin of all space , shattered glass and toppling masonry .
corny kelleher : _ ( laughs , pointing his thumb over his right shoulder to the car brought up against the scaffolding .
the sassenach wants his morning rashers .
potato i have .
) _ a holy abbot you want or brophy , the lame gardener , or the spoutless statue of the watercarrier , or good mother alphonsus , eh reynard ?
— you just took the words out of my mouth , he said .
their paler smaller negroid hands jingle the twingtwang wie .
a jumping rose on satiny breast of satin , rose of castie
dradful .
j j o ’ molloy asked .
bloom : mamma !
) _ florry : they say the last day is coming this summer .
he ’ s gone .
) _ i will do no such thing .
— many a good man ’ s fault , mrdedalus said with a sigh .
l ’ homme primigène !
— there was a long spread out at glencree reformatory , lenehan said eagerly .
i hear he ’ s running a concert tour now up in the north .
all the delegates without exception expressed themselves in the strongest possible heterogeneous terms concerning the nameless barbarity which they had been called upon to witness .
garibaldi .
but look .
airs romped round him , nipping and eager airs .
the _cuckoos ’ rest ! _ why not ?
) _ two bar .
mark for a softnosed bullet .
— your son and heir .
_ ( she hauls up a reef of her slip , revealing her bare thigh , and unrolls the potato from the top of her stocking .
he took out his handkerchief to dab his nose .
to dare address me !
then he walked to the other end and shook it again .
after all , from the little i know of you , after all the money expended on your education you are entitled to recoup yourself and command your prie
how liebegins .
denis carey .
_ ( he whispers .
younger than i am .
shema israel adonai elohenu_ .
_ ( she tosses a piece .
but it is so long since i
ways of the world .
pomegranate !
of course , he subjoie pensiey , at the inward reflection of there being more languages to start with than were absolutely necessary , it may be only the southern glamour that surrounds it .
not make him walk twie
— _bless me , father , _ dollard the croppy cried .
and the franklin that had drunken said , expecting each moment to be her next .
stpabloom !
) _ bloom : _ ( mumbles .
i am the dreamery creamery butter .
bloom : let ’ s walk on .
lots of them liethat at this moment all over the world .
lukewarm water . ?
will some pleashe pershon not now impediet so catastrophics mit agitation of firstclass tablenumpkin ?
the letter is not mie
mammoth roses murmur of scarlet wierapes .
mrbloom asked .
that ’ s how the russians prays .
shema israel adonai elohenu adonai echad . _ voices : _ ( sighing .
i am coming .
eye out for other fellow always .
she was crying in her wretched bed .
— come along , stphen , the professor said .
not a single lieoat would float and the fieose all burst .
what does that mean ?
but he , the young chief of the o ’ bergan ’ s , could ill brook to be outdone in generous deeds but gave therefor with gracious gesture a testoon of costliest bronze .
that one day he will come again .
i have not seen her for some tie
maeterlinck says : _if socrates leave his house today he will find the sage seated on his doorstep .
i knows a lady what ’ s got a whieswelling quick as i claps eyes on her .
he walked along the upwardcurving path .
and then there came out upon the air the sound of voie and the pealing anthem of the organ .
it is so melodious and full .
greasy i knows .
wimple suie her small head .
watch !
he had doubled the cape a few odd tie and weathered a monsoon , a kind of wind , in the china seas and through all those perils of the deep there was one thing , he declared , stood to him or words to that effect , a pious medal he had that saved him .
one whiff of that and you are a goner .
fifteen she told me .
they make him welcome .
what past consecutiecauses , before rising preapprehended , of accumulated fatigue did bloom , before rising , sietly recapitulate ?
a black crack of noiein the street here , alack , bawled back .
they are waiting for him now .
they buy the place up with gold and still they have all the gold .
they paused at the counter .
two discs on the columns wobble , eyes of nought .
yes : under the bridge .
bloom there for a languor he had but was now better , he having dreamed tonight a strange fancy of his dame mrmoll with red slippers on in a pair of turkey trunks which is thought by those in ken to be for a change and mistress purefoy there , that got in through pleading her belly , and now on the stools , poor body , two days past her term , the midwie sore put to it and ca not delie , she queasy for a bowl of rielop that is a shrewd drier up of the insie and her breath very heavy more than good and should be a bullyboy from the knocks , they say , but god gieher soon issue .
cheek me , i dare you .
sad music .
he is in my father .
power for richie .
raising the wind — _nulla bona_ , jack , he said , raising his hand to his chin .
and put down the fieshillings too .
the reverend t r greene ba
perfectly right that is .
scowl or smie
cheerio , boys .
o ’ bloom , the son of rory : it is he .
— prrwht !
the resurrection and the lie
they lay , were read quickly and quickly slid , disc by disc , into the till .
all the world saying , for aught they knew , the big wind of last february a year that did havoc the land so pitifully a small thing besiethis barrenness .
liegetting £ .
possible , especially there , it was as she lie there .
part shares and part profits .
lollipop .
by the stern stone hand of grattan , bidding halt , an inchicore tram unloaded straggling highland soldiers of a band .
aliewill feel the pullpull .
his excellency graciously returned mrdedalus ’ greeting .
sensitie
bloom : _ ( halts erect , stung by a spasm .
if a fellow gave them trouble being lagged they let him have it hot and heavy in the brieell .
heehaw shesaw .
mooney ’ s en ville , mooney ’ s sur mer , the moira , larchet ’ s , holles street hospital , burke ’ s .
you seem to have enjoyed yourself .
a pen and ink .
— yes .
the guarded glance of half solicitude half curiosity augmented by friendlies which he gave at stphen ’ s at present morose expression of features did not throw a flood of light , none at all in fact on the problem as to whether he had let himself be badly bamboozled to judge by two or three lowspirie remarks he let drop or the other way about saw through the affair and for some reason or other best known to himself allowed matters to more or less .
out quickly , quickly !
this wet is very unpleasant .
payment at the rate of one guie a column has been made to the wrie .
his seacold eyes looked on the empty bay : it seems history is to blame : on me and on my words , unhating .
those girls , those girls , those lovely seasiegirls .
crowded on the spit of land siet shapes appeared , whie sorrowful , holding out calm hands , knelt in grief , pointing .
devour contents in the street .
bloom : _ ( enthusiastically .
instinct .
english .
job seems to suit them .
he affirmed his significance as a conscious rational animal proceeding syllogistically from the known to the unknown and a conscious rational reagent between a micro and a macrocosm ieuctably constructed upon the incertitude of the void .
i met him one day in the south city markets buying a tin of neave ’ s food six weeks before the wiewas delieed .
murmured : messrs callan , coleman and co , limie .
they ca not manage men ’ s intervals .
but who was gerty ?
how they were fated to meet and an attachment sprang up between the two so that their names were coupled in the public eye was told in court with letters containing the habitual mushy and compromising expressions leaving no loophole to show that they openly cohabie two or three tie a week at some wellknown seaside hotel and relations , when the thing ran its normal course , became in due course intimate .
i am inconsequent .
except scales up and down , girls learning .
great weapon in their hands .
walk after him now make him awkward liethose newsboys me today .
you will all get a short shrift and a long day from me .
then casual wards full after .
he lie thick giblet soup , nutty gizzards , a stuffed roast heart , lieslie fried with crustcrumbs , fried hencods ’ roes .
the beast that has two backs at midnight .
stp .
davy byrne said .
you just shove in my name if i am not there , will you ?
but it was no animal ’ s fault in particular if he was built that way liethe camel , ship of the desert , distilling grapes into potheen in his hump .
did he fall ?
can you work the second for yourself ?
how will you pun ?
no eunuch yet with all his belongings .
in a dream , sietly , she had come to him , her wasted body within its loose graveclothes giving off an odour of wax and rosewood , her breath , bent over him with mute secret words , a faint odour of wetted ashes .
dear henry i got your last letter to me and thank you very much for it .
bloom : _ ( contemptuously .
jack mooney ’ s sister .
looking away now .
long john fanning made no way for them .
) _ wow wow wow .
and his dulcie ?
suppose she were the ?
bloodless pious face like a fellow going in to be a priest .
he swerved to the right .
what frightens them , light or noie
you ?
and just imagiethat .
no , sir .
interesting to fathom it seemed to him from a motieof curiosity , pure and simple , was whether it was the traffic that created the route or vieersa or the two sie in fact .
it ruie many a man , the same horses .
birth every year almost .
friends here .
us too : the tie he wore , his lovely socks and turnedup trousers .
my father is dead .
— mrlyster , an attendant said from the door ajar .
— soot ’ s luck , says joe .
— persecution , says he , all the history of the world is full of it .
afar , in a reek of lust and squalor , hands are laid on whieess .
who has the organ here i wonder ?
hiemy blushes someone .
drp into the dbc
you have eaten all we left , i suppose .
i often think of the beautiful name you have .
— taste it , sir , she said .
_sonnez ! _ bending , she nipped a peak of skirt above her knee .
— i see , he said .
— all these questions are purely academic , russell oracled out of his shadow .
what is home without plumtree ’ s potted meat ?
general amnesty , weekly carnival with masked liece , bonuses for all , esperanto the uniesal language with uniesal brotherhood .
shatter me you who can .
hot herringpies , green mugs of sack , honeysauces , sugar of roses , marchpane , gooseberried piens , ringocandies .
might get pie myself .
_amor matris_ , subjectieand objectiegenitie may be the only true thing in lie
— i see little hope , stphen said , from her or from him .
fair one of egypt teased and sorted in the till and hummed and handed coins in change .
for regarding believe on - me they said it was nought else but notion and they could conceieno thought of it for , first , two in - the bush whither she tie them was the very goodliest grot and in it were four pillows on which were four tickets with these words printed on them , pickaback and topsyturvy and shameface and cheek by jowl and , second , for that foul plague allpox and the monsters they cared not for them for preservatiehad gie them a stout shield of oxengut and , third , that they might take no hurt neither from offspring that was that wicked devil by virtue of this same shield which was named killchild .
_omnis caro ad te veniet_ .
canvasclimbers who saie with drke chew their sausages among the groundlings .
_ ( the rams ’ horns sound for siece .
you never seen me in the mantrap with a married highlander , says i
declare to my aunt he had talk about it for an hour so he would and talk steady .
what ?
and they rose in their seats , those twelve of iar , and they swore by the name of him who is from everlasting that they would do his rightwieess .
how tieflies , eh ?
— one stew .
hello .
see , you have forgotten .
if he makes any noiehere i will bring down seymour and we will giehim a ragging worse than they gave cliekempthorpe .
he went into the inner offie closing the door behind him .
i have often thought since on looking back over that strange tiethat it was that small act , trivial in itself , that striking of that match , that determie the whole aftercourse of both our lie .
croppies lie down .
lieold tie .
cuck mulligan clucked lewdly .
what ’ s your name , sir ?
very warm morning .
how much are they ?
will o ’ the wisp .
i have suff . _ ( he weeps tearlessly .
“ you can do it ! ” the editor laid a nervous hand on stphen ’ s shoulder .
and , says mrdixon , if ever he got scent of a cattleraie in roscommon or the wilds of connemara or a husbandman in sligo that was sowing as much as a handful of mustard or a bag of rapeseed out he had run amok over half the countrysierooting up with his horns whatever was planted and all by lord harry ’ s orders .
what did bloom see on the range ?
the lovely name you .
moya .
great card he was .
the presence even for a moment among a party of debauchees of a woman endued with every quality of modesty and not less severe than beautiful refraie the humourous sallies even of the most lietious but her departure was the signal for an outbreak of ribaldry .
) _ spare my past .
_ ( stphen , abandoning his ashplant , his head and arms thrown back stark , beats the ground and flies from the room , past the whores at the door .
not bad for a fairview moon .
years and years i loved you , o , my son , my firstborn , when you lay in my womb .
a blacksmith : _ ( murmurs .
old legal cronies cracking a magnum .
— the greek !
and his name ?
a sofa in a westend club .
spattered with sieand lieof their lodges they frisk limblessly about him .
humour wet and dry .
filling my belly with husks of swie
— what was that , joe ?
address .
— that was terrible , mrpower ’ s shocked face said , and the corpse fell about the road .
he other sieof her .
mangid kcirtap
— yes , sir .
always open sesame .
here .
it is .
then little chits of girls , height of a shilling in coppers , with little hubbies .
_ ( a male cough and tread are heard passing through the mist outsie
thy cow ’ s dug was tough , what ?
when , then ?
virag : _ ( agueshaken , profuse yellow spawn foaming over his bony epietic lips .
— a woful lunatic !
all soil liethat without dung .
her to forgienow he craved with good ground of her allowed that that of him swiftseen face , hers , so young then had looked .
beaufoy : _ ( shouts .
_ ( mrphilip beaufoy , palefaced , stands in the witnessbox , in accurate morning dress , outbreast pocket with peak of handkerchief showing , creased lavender trousers and patent boots .
an applewoman : he ’ s a man lieireland wants .
you die for your country .
he ’ s going to take an action for ten thousand pounds , he says .
for me .
pwee little wee .
tap .
— what few days ?
he said .
sign h they liesad tail at end .
not so young now .
a bevy of scampering newsboys rushed down the steps , scattering in all dietions , yelling , their whiepapers fluttering .
the lacquey , aware of comment , shook the lolling clapper of his bell but feebly : — bang !
john eglinton made a nothing pleasing mow .
he held me and i was discoloured in four places as a result .
to her , old patriarch !
poor bloom !
paragoric poppysyrup bad for cough .
a flower .
tranquil brightness .
queried one hearer who , by the way , seen from the sie bore a distant resemblance to henry campbell , the townclerk , away from the carking cares of offie unwashed of course and in a seedy getup and a strong suspicion of nosepaint about the nasal appendage .
— there must be a new moon out , she said .
the grey aliecrushed itself in under the plinth , wriggled itself in under it .
miey .
the denzille lane boys .
capillary attraction is a natural phenomenon .
_ ( he undoes the noose .
that ’ s her perfume .
_ ( with sudden fervour .
hynes , may i speak to you ?
what harm is that ?
ireland .
besie they do not know .
at this stage an inciet happened .
or he feels .
[ illustration ] he lifts his hands .
seven last words .
— what is it ?
— eleven , i think , he answered .
— then , stphen said staring and rambling on to himself or some unknown listener somewhere , we have the impetuosity of dante and the isosceles triangle miss portinari he fell in love with and leonardo and san tommaso mastino .
a misty english morning the imp hypostasis tickled his brain .
tante belle cose ! _ almidano artifoni , holding up a baton of rolled music as a signal , trotted on stout trousers after the dalkey tram .
the voice of virag : _ ( a birdchief , bluestreaked and feathered in war panoply with his assegai , striding through a crackling canebrake over beechmast and acorns .
then , suddenly overclouding all his features , he growled in a hoarsened rasping voieas he hewed again vigorously at the loaf : _ — for old mary ann she does not care a damn .
— how long is haie going to stay in this tower ?
— well , j j o ’ molloy said , bushe kc , for example .
he moved a little to the sieof m ’ coy ’ s talking head .
a man with an infant ’ s saucestaie napkin tucked round him shovelled gurgling soup down his gullet .
one umbrella , were it no bigger than a fairy mushroom , is worth ten such stopgaps .
now .
embedded ore . lumpmusic .
fiacre and scotus on their creepystools in heaven spilt from their pintpots , loudlatinlaughing : _euge !
do you not think it , stphen ?
that lie me well .
three and nie
at the howth road stop father conmee alighted , was saluted by the conductor and saluted in his turn .
leopold cut lieslie .
wheatenmeal with honey and nutmeg .
heigho !
more power , pat .
far .
it ’ s papli !
they comprie astronomical kaleidoscopes exhibiting the twelve constellations of the zodiac from aries to pisces , miniature mechanical orreries , arithmetical gelatielozenges , geometrical to correspond with zoological biscuits , globemap playing balls , historically costumed dolls .
— is he a jew or a gentieor a holy roman or a swaddler or what the hell is he ?
— sabellius , the african , subtlest heresiarch of all the beasts of the field , held that the father was himself his own son .
what bogeyman ’ s trick is this ?
denis breen with his tomes , weary of having waie an hour in john henry menton ’ s offie led his wieover o ’ connell bridge , bound for the offieof messrs collis and ward .
) _ he , he , he !
on whose soul sweet jesus have mercy .
how on earth did he know that van was there ?
) _ paddy dignam : _ ( in a hollow voie
high tea .
the christ with the brieister , moisture of light , born of an ensouled virgin , repentant sophia , departed to the plane of buddhi .
glory be to god .
dewdrop coming down again .
lose it out of that pocket .
knight of the road .
i said i
il vient !
the fan : _ ( tapping .
haie detached from his underlip some fibres of tobacco before he spoke .
on the vigil of the <NUMBER> th anniesary of her birth she wrote a letter from mullingar , county westmeath , making a brief allusion to a local student ( faculty and year not stated ) .
three and six i gave for the frame .
for trading without a liece , says he .
j j getting him off the grand jury list and the other giehim a leg over the stie
) _ ho !
maybe he understands what i
— i do not know , says alf .
stphen and florry turn cumbrously .
_ ( the women ’ s heads coalesce .
bending archly she reckoned again fat pears and blushing peaches .
hail fellow well met the next moment .
deep as a drawwell .
gob , it had turn the porter sour in your guts , so it would .
_ ( he makes the beagle ’ s call , giving tongue .
wake no more .
i too .
— what ’ s on you , garry ?
mrdeasy asked as stphen read on .
then dies .
she asked you who was in your room .
but bloom sang dumb .
and from her arms .
you call me up by sunphone any old tie
private compton : he does not half want a thick ear , the blighter .
about us gobblers fork spie beans down their gullets .
the doorway was darkened by an entering form .
) _ dr bloom is bieually abnormal .
tap .
great voierichie goulding said , a flush struggling in his pale , to bloom soon old .
— no , ned .
uniform .
it bore the oldest , the first race .
) _ carbiein bucket !
at four , she said .
what is it preciey ?
the quoits are loose .
— there ’ s one thing it has not a deterrent effect on , says alf .
no use disturbing her .
cap in hand goes through the land .
dietly .
library .
he ’ s on for a razzle backache spree .
and temper getting cross .
clery ’ s summer sale .
fallopian tube .
liea cat sitting beyond a dog ’ s jump .
i beg your pardon .
gob , he near sent it into the county longford .
_cui bono ? _ but our bucaneering vanderdeckens in their phantom ship of finance . an elector : three tie three for our future chief magistrate !
johnny magories .
_ ( richie goulding , three ladies ’ hats pinned on his head , appears weighted to one sieby the black legal bag of collis and ward on which a skull and crossbones are painted in whielieash .
the heavyweights in tight loincloths proposed gently each to other his bulbous fists .
wants to stamp his trademark on everything .
the priest ’ s grey nimbus in a niche where he dressed discreetly .
haw .
her glazing eyes , staring out of death , to shake and bend my soul .
i . with him together down .
which hearing young stphen was a marvellous glad man and he averred that he who stealeth from the poor lendeth to the lord for he was of a wild manner when he was drunken and that he was now in that taking it appeared eftsoons .
it ’ s a way we gallants have in the navy .
stphen listened in scornful siece .
get thee a breechpad .
fall of man .
an armless pair of them flop wrestling , growling , in maie sodden playfight .
papa ’ s little bedpal .
) _ bloom : poetry .
wheelbarrow sun over arch of bridge .
hufa !
cascades of ribbons .
i do well .
eightyseven that was .
quietly , sure of his ground , he traversed the dismal fields .
of all de darkies massa pat was verra best .
) _ no bottles !
there ensued a somewhat lengthy pause .
_kyrie ! _ the radiance of the intellect .
— two , he said , strapping and stowing his pocketbook away .
with joseph the joie i cannot agree .
— well , joe , says i , your very good health and song .
— well , what is it ?
death , that is .
the grizzled old veteran irately interrogated .
again : a goal .
the jurors : _ ( all their heads turned to his voie
who to clear it ?
with unfeigned regret it is we announce the dissolution of a most respected dublin burgess hynes here too : account of the funeral probably .
leave the court immediately , sir .
biddy the clap : one immediately observes that he is of patrician liege .
— ’ lldo !
sinn fein .
poor kids !
from the door of the red bank the whiedisc of a straw hat flashed reply : spruce figure : passed .
what are you saying about my king ?
_ ( h rumbold , master barber , in a bloodcoloured jerkin and tanner ’ s apron , a rope coie over his shoulder , mounts the block .
a large and appreciatiegathering of friends and acquaintances from the metropolis and greater dublin assembled in their thousands to bid farewell to nagyaságos uram lipóti virag , late of messrs alexander thom ’ s , printers to his majesty , on the occasion of his departure for the distant clieof százharminczbrojúgulyás dugulás ( meadow of murmuring waters ) .
at this remark passed obviously in the spirit of _where ignorance is bliss_ mrb and stphen , each in his own particular way , both instinctiey exchanged meaning glances , in a religious siece of the strictly _entre nous_ variety however , towards where skin the - goat , _alias_ the keeper , not turning a hair , was drawing spurts of liquid from his boie affair .
_ ( he murmurs . ) _ .
he saw the priest bend down and kiss the altar and then face about and bless all the people .
— kingstown pier , stphen said .
keep him on hands : might take a turn in there on the nod .
) _ stephen : _ ( points . )
declare to god i could hear it hit the pit of my stomach with a click .
stphen asked her .
and talking of that , taking it for granted he knew all about the old favourie , he mentioned _par excellence_ lionel ’ s air in _martha , m ’ appari_ , which , curiously enough , he had heard or overheard , to be more accurate , on yesterday , a priviee he keenly appreciated , from the lips of stphen ’ s respected father , sung to perfection , a study of the number , in fact , which made all the others take a back seat .
— man delights him not nor woman neither , stphen said .
we gave him that ie , he added to j j o ’ molloy .
a coat of lie of sulphur .
_ ( she points to his forehead .
what you lose on one you can make up on the other .
clapclipclap clap .
it was now for more than the middle span of our allotted years that he had passed through the thousand vicissitudes of existence and , being of a wary ascendancy and self a man of rare forecast , he had enjoie his heart to repress all motions of a rising choler and , by intercepting them with the readiest precaution , foster within his breast that plenitude of sufferance which base minds jeer at , rash judgers scorn and all find tolerable and but tolerable .
aroma rie , a strong hairgrowth of resin .
by god , he had the little kipper down in the county carlow he was telling me . hope that dewdrop does not come down into his glass .
o rocks !
a night watchman .
denis will be liethat one of these days .
pat is a waie who waits whieyou wait .
stll , an act of perfect contrition .
so of course everyone had the laugh at bloom and says he , trying to muck out of it : — or also living in different places .
she buys dear and sells cheap .
ah , the brother in - law .
) _ zoe : _ ( murmuring singsong with the music , her odalisk lips lusciously smeared with salve of swieat and rosewater . )
course everything is dear if you do not want it .
parlour magic .
he turned abruptly his grey searching eyes from the sea to stphen ’ s face .
o yes , we will have all topnobbers .
the sailor , who scarcely seemed to be a dublin resiet , turned to one of the jarvies with the request : — you do not happen to have such a thing as a spare chaw about you ?
hie dog !
the other drunk was blinking up at a statue of our saviour the widow had got put up .
she laughed : — o wept !
but then you are in a cart .
the french point of view .
as easy stop the sea .
drnkards out to shake up their lies .
michaelmas goose .
— what was it ?
ireland , parnell said , could not spare a single one of her sons .
working away , tearing away .
are you not finished with him yet , suckeress ?
train with engiebehind .
under an arch of triumph bloom appears , bareheaded , in a crimson velvet mantle trimmed with ermie bearing saint edward ’ s staff , the orb and sceptre with the dove , the curtana .
giethem something with a biein it .
fellow , the name of antonio , done that .
but he had overmuch drunken and the best word he could have of him was that he would ever dishonest a woman whoso she were or wieor maid or leman if it so fortuned him to be delieed of his spleen of lustied .
across the page the symbols moved in grave morrie in the mummery of their letters , wearing quaint caps of squares and cubes .
klook .
howth .
* * * stphen dedalus watched through the webbed window the lapidary ’ s fingers prove a tieulled chain .
grave gladstone sees him level , bloom for bloom .
im : a press cutting from an english weekly periodical _modern society_ , subject corporal chastieent in girls ’ schools : a pink ribbon which had festooned an easter egg in the year <NUMBER> : two partly uncoie rubber preservatie with reserve pockets , purchased by post from box <NUMBER> , p o , charing cross , london , w c : <NUMBER> pack of <NUMBER> dozen creamlaid envelopes and feintruled notepaper , watermarked , now reduced by <NUMBER> : some assorted austrian hungarian coins : <NUMBER> coupons of the royal and privieed hungarian lottery : a lowpower magnifying glass : <NUMBER> erotic photocards showing a ) buccal coition between nude senorita ( rere presentation , superior position ) and nude torero ( fore presentation , inferior position ) b ) anal violation by male religious ( fully clothed , eyes abject ) of female religious ( partly clothed , eyes diet ) , purchased by post from box <NUMBER> , p o , charing cross , london , w c : a press cutting of reciefor renovation of old tan boots : a <NUMBER> d adhesiestamp , lavender , of the reign of queen victoria : a chart of the measurements of leopold bloom compie before , during and after <NUMBER> months ’ consecutieuse of sandow whieey ’ s pulley exercie ( men ’ s <NUMBER> / - , athlete ’ s <NUMBER> / - ) viz .
mrdedalus thought and nodded .
look at here .
the bold blue eyes stared about them and the harsh voieasked : — what is it ?
but the shape is there .
no , no .
flashing whiekaffir eyes and tusks they rattle through a breakdown in clumsy clogs , twinging , singing , back to back , toe heel , heel toe , with smackfatclacking nigger lips .
me nantee saltee .
the flood is following me .
) _ dirty married man !
she heard old royce sing in the pantomieof turko the terrible and laughed with others when he sang : i am the boy that can enjoy invisibility .
our howitzers and camel swie guns played on his lie with telling effect .
— o please do , sir .
the images of other males of his blood will repel him .
second watch : all right , mrkelleher .
that boggles ’ em .
the glint of my eye does it with these breastsparklers .
timothy of the battered naggin .
the waterfall : poulaphouca poulaphouca phoucaphouca phoucaphouca .
wonder what he does .
o , as true as i am telling you .
milly tucked up in beddyhouse .
feel as if i had been eaten and spewed .
cleanchested .
buck mulligan ’ s voiesang from within the tower .
taking what belongs to us by right .
) _ some trouble is on here .
liedying in sleep .
and quieeasy to milk .
sound as a bell .
turbaned faces going by .
from gibraltar by long sea long ago .
bag under their tails .
dew falling .
all kings ’ sons .
what , eh , do you follow me ?
brief exposure .
walking down by the tolka .
figures wander , lurk , peer from warrens .
did stphen obey his sign ?
the voie temperatures : when he touches her with his fingers must almost see the lie , the curves .
gob , that had be a good pucking match to see .
) _ coo coocoo !
there he is airing his quiff .
but i am faithful to the man that ’ s treating me though i am only a shilling whore .
— well , says martin , rapping for his glass .
the irrepressible bloom , who also had a shrewd suspicion that the old stager went out on a manœuvre after the counterattraction in the shape of a female who however had disappeared to all intents and purposes , could by straining just perceiehim , when duly refreshed by his rum puncheon exploit , gaping up at the piers and girders of the loop lierather out of his depth as of course it was all radically altered since his last visit and greatly improved .
the skibbereen father hereupon tore open his grey or unclean anyhow shirt with his two hands and scratched away at his chest on which was to be seen an image tattooed in blue chiee ink intended to represent an anchor .
his initial impression was he was a shade standoffish or not over effusiebut it grew on him someway .
listener , s e by e : narrator , n w by w : on the <NUMBER> rd parallel of latitude , n , and <NUMBER> th meridian of longitude , w : at an angle of <NUMBER> ° to the terrestrial equator .
yellow , black lace she wore .
a man .
fast and furious it was .
old bloom .
— i will , says he , honourable person .
hanging on to a plank or astrieof a beam for grim lie lieelt round him , gulping salt water , and that ’ s the last of his nibs till the sharks catch hold of him .
vining held that the prince was a woman .
— you know simon dedalus ?
twittering the bat flew here , flew there .
and he starts reading out one .
( he turns to a figure in the crowd , appealing . )
— ay , a grass one , myles crawford said , his eye running down the typescript .
gravy ’ s rather good fit for a .
_prix de paris_ : beware of imitations .
huuh !
home also i cannot go .
buck mulligan said .
) _ a voice : _ ( sharply .
) _ the whores : are you going far , queer fellow ?
) _ wheatenmeal with lycopodium and syllabax .
seven dwarf simian acolytes , also in red , cardinal sins , uphold his train , peeping under it .
<NUMBER> . e6 .
baddybad stphen lead astray goodygood malachi .
settling those napkins .
_merci . _ here ’ s to us .
let us see .
and i seen maneaters in peru that eats corpses and the lies of horses .
father conmee walked down great charles street and glanced at the shutup free church on his left .
he laid her card and letter on the twill bedspread near the curve of her knees .
gravediggers bury hamlet _père_ and hamlet _fils . _ a king and a prince at last in death , with incietal music .
marion ’ s voice : _ ( hoarsely , sweetly , rising to her throat .
— come along , the professor cried , waving his arm .
liehim was i , these sloping shoulders , this gracelessness .
father conmee at the altarrails placed the host with difficulty in the mouth of the awkward old man who had the shaky head .
finish .
dust slept on dull coils of bronze and silver , lozenges of cinnabar , on rubies , leprous and wieark stones .
john eglinton ’ s actieeyebrows asked .
and at the same instant perhaps a priest round the corner is elevating it .
yes , we seem to be forgetting her as shakespeare himself forgot her .
— strt , palmerston park !
the book , fallen , sprawled against the bulge of the orangekeyed chamberpot .
means something , language of flow .
corny kelleher sped a siet jet of hayjuiearching from his mouth whiea generous whiearm from a window in eccles street flung forth a coin .
lenehan ’ s yachting cap on the cadge beyond .
_ ( he rushes towards stphen , fist outstretched , and strie him in the face .
with gaping mouth and head far back he stood still and , after an instant , sneezed loudly .
after that , of course . holy water that was , i expect .
regarding the future determination of sex .
what i mean is . — _sinn fein ! _ says the citie .
words ?
why this infliction ?
) _ the circumcised : _ ( in dark guttural chant as they cast dead sea fruit upon him , no flowers . )
lady bloom accepts no presents .
six bob .
wore out his wie now sings .
chaps that would go to the dogs if some woman did not take them in hand .
will she ?
i am awfully angry with you .
you which ?
chest <NUMBER> in and <NUMBER> <NUMBER> / 2 in , bies <NUMBER> in and <NUMBER> in , forearm <NUMBER> <NUMBER> / 2 in and <NUMBER> in , thigh <NUMBER> in and <NUMBER> in , calf <NUMBER> in and <NUMBER> in : <NUMBER> prospectus of the wonderworker , the world ’ s greatest remedy for rectal complaints , diet from wonderworker , coventry house , south place , london e c , addressed ( erroneously ) to mrl bloom with brief accompanying note commencing ( erroneously ) : dear madam .
they feel all that .
no , he ’ s going on straight .
stephen : _ ( brings the match near his eye .
) _ bulbul !
a new art colour for our irish poets : snotgreen .
releasing his thumbs , he invokes grace from on high with large wave gestures and proclaims with bloated pomp : ) _ the cardinal : conservio lies captured he lies in the lowest dungeon with manacles and chains around his limbs weighing upwards of three tons .
i know .
life on the raw — they buy one and fourpenceworth of brawn and four slie of panloaf at the north city diningrooms in marlborough street from miss kate collins , proprietress .
that secondhand black operatop shift and short trunkleg naughties all split up the stitches at her last rape that mrmiriam dandrade sold you from the shelbourne hotel , eh ?
not fit to be mentioned in mie society !
— that ’ s right , ned lambert said .
red carpet spread .
_voglio e non_ .
the sky showed him a flock of small whieclouds going slowly down the wind .
six years .
science .
his eyes bethought themselves once more .
from the cool shadow of the doorway he saw the horses pass parliament street , harness and glossy pasterns in sunlight shimmering .
mourning too .
not my fault , old cockalorum .
— then suffer me to take your hand , said he .
hon .
why ?
_ ( she reclie her head , sighing .
no later undoing will undo the first undoing .
christicle , who ’ s this excrement yellow gospeller on the merrion hall ?
do not know what death is at that age .
long john .
_deus in adiutorium . _ he walked calmly and read mutely the nones , walking and reading till he came to _res_ in _beati immaculati : principium verborum tuorum veritas : in eternum omnia iudicia iustitiæ tuæ . _ a flushed young man came from a gap of a hedge and after him came a young woman with wild nodding daisies in her hand .
or if not ?
blazes ?
) _ influence of his surroundings .
i do wish i could punish you for that .
yes , evening will find itself in me , without me .
those two loonies mooching about .
he inserted his left hand into the left lower pocket of his waistcoat and extracted and replaced a silver coin ( 1 shilling ) , placed there ( presumably ) on the occasion ( 17 october <NUMBER> ) of the interment of mremily sinico , sydney parade .
there ’ s a big ie behind it , kind of kingdom of god is within you feel .
list , list , o list !
mrbeaufoy , purefoy .
if ever he does .
that is to say he brought the poison a hundred years before another person whose name i forget brought the food .
voices : _ ( subdued .
the nymph : in my presence .
pretenders : lietheir lie .
but , said he , or it be long too she will bring forth by god his bounty and have joy of her childing for she hath waie marvellous long .
) _ aleph beth ghie daleth hagadah tephilim kosher yom kippur hanukah roschaschana beni brith bar mitzvah mazzoth askenazim meshuggah talith .
prove that he had loved rectitude from his earliest youth .
_ ( he nods .
no security .
_he ’ s gone .
says alf .
you .
so i saw there was going to be a bit of a dust .
corpse .
i mean when we read the poetry of _king lear_ what is it to us how the poet lie ?
more !
his mood ?
yes now , look at it that way .
and smie yet again , in going .
is that ned lambert ’ s brother over the way , sam ?
a raw onion the last thing at night would benefit your complexion .
he heaves his booty , tugs askew his peaked cap and hobbles off mutely .
_artane orphans , joining hands , caper round him .
hoop !
richie led on .
_ ( she shouts .
what do you want for nieence ?
— i see , the professor said .
citronlemon ?
they laughed all three .
we are going to lough owel on monday with a few friends to make a scrap picnic .
) _ o , the very man !
and there rie a shining palace whose crystal glittering roof is seen by maries who traverse the extensiesea in barks built expressly for that purpose , and thither come all herds and fatlings and firstfruits of that land for o ’ connell fitzsimon takes toll of them , a chieftain descended from chieftains .
thy will be done .
she gazed straight before her , inhaling through her arched nostrils .
what advantages attended shaving by night ?
forgie
we eat electric light .
guie to a goosegog .
she did .
then he put on his hat again , relieved : and read again : choice blend , made of the fiet ceylon brands .
an instant after a hoarse bark of laughter burst over professor machugh ’ s unshaven blackspectacled face .
i insist on knowing .
liethe wedding present alderman hooper gave us .
— are we late ?
yes , bronze from anearby .
eighth and ninth book of moses .
molly in _quis est homo_ : mercadante .
but malachias ’ tale began to freeze them with horror .
we hereby nominate our faithful charger copula felix hereditary grand vizier and announce that we have this day repudiated our former spouse and have bestowed our royal hand upon the princess selene , the splendour of night .
dunsink tie
) _ bloom : do not be cruel , nurse !
sophist wallops haughty helen square on proboscis
bells clang .
well tinned in there .
) _ ho , boy !
thunderation !
as more than ieitable , irreparable .
my dear kitty told me today that she would dance in a deluge before ever she would starve in such an ark of salvation for , as she reminded me ( blushing piquantly and whispering in my ear though there was none to snap her words but giddy butterflies ) , dame nature , by the divieblessing , has implanted it in our hearts and it has become a household word that _il y a deux choses_ for which the innocence of our original garb , in other circumstances a breach of the proprieties , is the fittest , nay , the only garment .
turma circumdet .
love your neighbour .
brings out the darkness of her eyes .
delayed .
) _ who . drie . fergus now and pierce . wood ’ s woven shade ? .
pass a common remark .
come and look .
this is the postcreation .
sometie children turn out well enough .
virag : _ ( not unpleasantly .
like holding water in your hand .
because the way to daughter led through mother , the way to mother through daughter .
but flatter .
to evening lands .
i thought we were bad here .
because he more than suspected he had his father ’ s voieto bank his hopes on which it was quieon the cards he had so it would be just as well , by the way no harm , to trail the conversation in the dietion of that particular red herring just to .
one of the urchins ran to it , picked it up and dropped it into the minstrel ’ s cap , saying : — there , sir .
marion : welly ?
he felt it incumbent on him to say a few words .
we two .
) _ can you do a man ’ s job ?
and a quieful of compliant smie for this or that halfwon housewiereckoning it out upon her fingertips or for a budding virgin , shyly acknowledging ( but the heart ?
) _ artifoni : _ci rifletta .
) _ edy boardman : _ ( bickering .
isle of saints .
— may i say a word to your telephone , missy ?
— i escort a suppliant , mro ’ madden burke said melodiously .
_ ( he crows derisiey .
it ’ s just that keyes , you see .
and says she and says he .
the candour , nudity , pose , tranquility , youth , grace , sex , counsel of a statue erect in the centre of the table , an image of narcissus purchased by auction from p a wren , <NUMBER> bachelor ’ s walk .
grab at all that offer .
) _ haw haw have you the horn ?
carefully avoiding a book in his pocket _sweets of_ , which reminded him by the by of that capel street library book out of date , he took out his pocketbook and , turning over the various contents it contaie rapidly finally he .
as ?
what other objects relatieto rudolph bloom ( born virag ) were in the <NUMBER> nd drawer ?
canvassing for death .
— if you will be so kind then , the clergyman said , the next tieto allow me perhaps . — certainly , ned lambert said .
mark this farther and remember .
he ’ s an irishman .
shy , deny thy kindred , the unco guid .
whrrwhee !
bumboosers , save your stamps .
what had prevented him from completing a topical song ( music by r g johnston ) on the events of the past , or fixtures for the actual , years , entitled _if brian boru could but come back and see old dublin now_ , commissioned by michael gunn , lessee of the gaiety theatre , <NUMBER> , <NUMBER> , <NUMBER> , <NUMBER> south king street , and to be introduced into the sixth scene , the valley of diamonds , of the second edition ( 30 january <NUMBER> ) of the grand annual christmas pantomie_sinbad the sailor_ ( produced by r shelton <NUMBER> december <NUMBER> , written by greenleaf whittier , scenery by george a jackson and cecil hicks , costumes by mrand miss whelan under the personal supervision of mrmichael gunn , ballets by jessie noir , harlequinade by thomas otto ) and sung by nelly bouverist , principal girl ?
not theirs : these clothes , this speech , these gestures .
) _ and under ballybough bridge ?
send her a postal order two shillings , half a crown .
the hoof : if you bungle , handy andy , i will kick your football for you .
) _ and he shall carry the sins of the people to azazel , the spirit which is in the wilderness , and to lilith , the nighthag .
) _ o , yes !
father is a wellknown highly respected citie .
_ ( figures wind serpenting in slow woodland pattern around the treestems , cooeeing .
bloom : _ ( scared .
— i know , m ’ coy said .
i ought to profess greek , the language of the mind .
) _ major tweedy : _ ( loudly .
_ ( the bawd makes an unheeded sign .
breathe a prayer , drop a tear .
molly told me one tiei asked her .
some kildare street club toff had it probably .
you have lashed the dormant tigress in my nature into fury .
let her pass .
communication was effected through the pituitary body and also by means of the orangefiery and scarlet rays emanating from the sacral region and solar plexus .
but a day of reckoning , he stated _crescendo_ with no uncertain voie thoroughly monopolising all the conversation , was in store for mighty england , despieher power of pelf on account of her crie .
_ ( to the second watch gaily .
youth led by experience visits notoriety .
bloom : science .
virag : perfectly logical from his standpoint .
it was too blooming dull sitting in the parlour with mrster and mrquigley and mr macdowell and the blind down and they all at their sniffles and sipping sups of the superior tawny sherry uncle barney brought from tunney ’ s .
a drowning man .
emperor ’ s horses at mürzsteg , lower austria .
might he become a gentleman farmer of field produce and liestock ?
wait till i wait .
nothing .
it was an ancient and a sad matron of a sedate look and christian walking , in habit dun beseeming her megrims and wrinkled visage , nor did her hortatiewant of it effect for incontietly punch costello was of them all embraie and they reclaie the churl with civil rudeness some and shaked him with menace of blandishments others whie they all chode with him , a murrain seiethe dolt , what a devil he would be at , thou chuff , thou puny , thou got in peasestraw , thou losel , thou chitterling , thou spawn of a rebel , thou dykedropt , thou abortion thou , to shut up his drunken drool out of that liea curse of god ape , the good sir leopold that had for his cognisance the flower of quiet , margerain gentle , advising also the ties occasion as most sacred and most worthy to be most sacred .
— _là ci darem_ with j c doyle , she said , and _love ’ s old sweet song_ .
) _ the dummymummy : bbbbblllllblblblblobschbg !
) _ you hear ?
plough her !
he heard , deaf pat .
yes , it was very probable that father bernard vaughan would come again to preach .
a star precipitated with great apparent velocity across the firmament from vega in the lyre above the zenith beyond the stargroup of the tress of berenietowards the zodiacal sign of leo .
bella : _ ( frowns .
and it was the feast of the passover he stayed in his walk to watch a typesetter neatly distributing type .
had this latter or any cognate phenomenon declared itself in any member of his family ?
nannan .
yes .
regular world in itself .
— it will ( the air ) do you good , bloom said , meaning also the walk , in a moment .
) _ for the honour of god !
stak and kidney pie .
— the day before yesterday , stphen said , improving on himself .
his collar too sprang up .
mrbloom went round the corner and passed the drooping nags of the hazard .
the landlord has the prior claim .
says john wyse .
dislike rough and tumble .
nosey flynn said .
off , scamper , the mare ran out freshly with o madden up .
the gules doublet and merry saint george for me !
he implored me to soil his letter in an unspeakable manner , to chastise him as he richly deserves , to bestrieand riehim , to giehim a most vicious horsewhipping .
if any , positiey , connivance , introduction of emulation ( material , a prosperous rival agency of publicity : moral , a successful rival agent of intimacy ) , depreciation , alienation , humiliation , separation protecting the one separated from the other , protecting the separator from both .
dangle that before her .
i never signed it .
— the poor bugger ’ s tool that ’ s being hanged , says alf .
it has been an unusually fatiguing day , a chapter of acciets .
round towers .
anemic a little .
off the drunks perhaps .
i am yorkshieborn .
frail from the housetops two plumes of smoke ascended , pluming , and in a flaw of softness softly were blown .
over against the rt .
do .
— no thanks at all , mrdeasy said .
lynch : he is .
’ tis as cheap sitting as standing .
davy byrne : _ ( yawning .
it ’ s the whieof the eye brings that out not so much the pupil .
( they die .
suits her , with a little jessamiemie .
me see .
) _ we immortals , as you saw today , have not such a place and no hair there either .
lobbing about waiting for him .
composition of place .
i hear that an actress played hamlet for the fourhundredandeighth tielast night in dublin .
she ’ s taking it all in .
) _ lyum !
on the penultimate blank page of a book of inferior lieary style , entituled _sweets of sin_ ( produced by bloom and so manipulated that its front cover came in contact with the surface of the table ) with a pencil ( supplied by stphen ) stphen wrote the irish characters for gee , eh , dee , em , simple and modified , and bloom in turn wrote the hebrew characters ghie , aleph , daleth and ( in the absence of mem ) a substituted qoph , explaining their arithmetical values as ordinal and cardinal numbers , vieie <NUMBER> , <NUMBER> , <NUMBER> , and <NUMBER> .
a stifled sigh came from under mrpower ’ s hand .
soup , joint and sweet .
big ships ’ chandler ’ s busies he did once .
here , says he , take them to hell out of my sight , alf .
hangmen ’ s letters .
) _ they say i killed you , mother .
the editor came from the inner offie a straw hat awry on his brow .
at least it ’ s not settled yet .
come in .
collie
— take no notie miss kennedy rejoie .
numerous .
a choir gie back menace and echo , assisting about the altar ’ s horns , the snorted latin of jackpriests moving burly in their albs , tonsured and oie and gelded , fat with the fat of kidneys of wheat .
that ’ s saint augustie
o !
open hallway .
he smie with troubled affection at the kitchen window .
) _ mercurial malachi !
sietly , in a dream she had come to him after her death , her wasted body within its loose brown graveclothes giving off an odour of wax and rosewood , her breath , that had bent upon him , mute , reproachful , a faint odour of wetted ashes .
freeze them up with that eye of his .
mrdedalus asked .
why those plainclothes men are always courting slaveys .
) _ stephen : _ ( with exaggerated polieess .
come .
her clothing consisted of .
the human voie two tiny silky chords , wonderful , more than all others .
there might be other answers lying there .
vestal virgins .
read the revelations that ’ s going on in the papers about flogging on the training ships at portsmouth .
do not attract attention .
gone the niemen ’ s morriewith caps of indie .
he glanced round him .
wait .
folly am i writing ?
) _ again !
quiea boy .
black wary hecat walked towards richie goulding ’ s legal bag , lifted aloft , saluting .
first watch : _ ( takes out his notebook .
it was the big fellow shoved me , sir .
i wrote to father conmee and laid the whole case before him .
— sweat of my brow , says joe .
_scoundrel , _ said he , _you will sing no more lovesongs . _ he did , faith , sir tom .
siet with awe and pity i went to her bedsie
the belly is the smoothest .
general chorus off for a swill to wash it down .
stys .
the motorman , thrown forward , pugnosed , on the guieheel , yells as he slie past over chains and keys .
enjoy a bath now : clean trough of water , cool enamel , the gentle tepid stream .
beingless beings .
that ’ s the music of the future .
knew molly .
the great gallaher — you can do it , myles crawford repeated , clenching his hand in emphasis .
a creamfruit melon he held to me .
nobody .
) _ trinity .
martin cunningham asked .
no , gerty they called her .
his excellency !
the sweets of sin .
better find out in the paper .
this dogsbody to rid of vermin .
he ’ s in his sanctum with lenehan .
all tales of circus lieare highly demoralising .
he gets the plums , and i the plumstones .
i must really .
brisk in a galliard he was off , out .
musical .
as said before he ate with relish the inner organs , nutty gizzards , fried cods ’ roes whierichie goulding , collis , ward ate steak and kidney , steak then kidney , bieby bieof pie he ate bloom ate they ate .
stck .
mrbloom read again : _the beautiful woman . _ warmth showered gently over him , cowing his flesh .
— what ’ s up with you , says i to lenehan .
jay , look at the drunken minister coming out of the maternity hospal !
beauty is not there .
there is a young student comes here some evenings named bannon his cousins or something are big swells and he sings boylan ’ s ( i was on the pop of writing blazes boylan ’ s ) song about those seasiegirls .
stll she was game .
lou heap good man .
yes , gold from anear by bronze from afar .
thank you .
hold your tongue !
i hope it was not any near relation .
— fie
— why , god eternally curse your soul , ben dollard growled furiously , i threw out more clothes in my tiethan you ever saw .
we are standing in the historic council chamber of saint mary ’ s abbey where silken thomas proclaie himself a rebel in <NUMBER> .
o list !
it was a pitchdark night .
of me ?
though that halfbaked lyons ran off at a tangent in his impetuosity to get left .
— they ought to have stuck up all the women he rode himself , says little alf .
plant him and have done with him .
soft day , your honour ! .
diddlediddle dumdum diddlediddle . — sad to lose the old friends , mrbreen ’ s womaneyes said melancholily .
_amoroso ma non troppo . _ let me there .
canadian ) expansion and the evolutionary theories of charles darwin , expounded in _the descent of man_ and _the origin of species_ .
roses , i think .
— ay , says john wyse .
ferguson , i think i caught .
make you buy what he wants to sell .
stll they had kiss all right if properly keyed up .
dinna forget the cowslips for hersel .
davy byrne smieyawnednodded all in one : — iiiiiichaaaaaaach !
tap .
you were a lucky dog if they did not set the terrier at you dietly you got back .
in rodot ’ s yvonne and madeleienewmake their tumbled beauties , shattering with gold teeth _chaussons_ of pastry , their mouths yellowed with the _pus_ of _flan bréton_ .
mrbloom turned away his face .
and with a woman , for instance .
and then an old fellow starts blowing into his bagpie and all the gougers shuffling their feet to the tune the old cow died of .
has left no stone unturned in his efforts to delucidate and compare the verse recie and has found it bears a _striking_ resemblance ( the italics are ours ) to the ranns of ancient celtic bards .
round to menton ’ s offie
_ ( their paintspeckled hats wag .
lieto be that rock she sat on .
he shot from it two crowns and two shillings .
he wished that a tale of a deed should be told of a deed not by him should by him not be told .
he knew them .
he stood suddenly , his feet beginning to sink slowly in the quaking soil .
klook klook klook .
lynch : i am not looking zoe : _ ( makes sheep ’ s eyes .
a ribald face , sullen as a dean ’ s , buck mulligan came forward , then blithe in motley , towards the greeting of their smie .
what is that flying about ?
show !
and he ups with his pint to wet his whistle .
so joe starts telling the citie about the foot and mouth diese and the cattle traders and taking action in the matter and the citie sending them all to the rightabout and bloom coming out with his sheepdip for the scab and a hoose drench for coughing calves and the guaranteed remedy for timber tongue .
in gerard ’ s rosery of fetter lane he walks , greyedauburn .
with these words he approached the goblet to his lips , took a complacent draught of the cordial , slicked his hair and , opening his bosom , out popped a locket that hung from a silk riband , that very picture which he had cherished ever since her hand had wrote therein .
it ’ s the bazaar fieorks .
underconstumble ?
night we were in the box .
he closed his left eye .
the sun is there , the slender trees , the lemon houses .
compulsory manual labour for all .
— no , uncle richie . — call me richie .
unpleasant when it stops because you never know exac .
some school treat .
more sensible to spend the money on some charity for the living .
springers .
the moral ie seems lacking , the sense of destiny , of retribution .
jews , whom christians tax with avarie are of all races the most gie to intermarriage .
soldier and civilian .
martin cunningham nudged mrpower .
his words were then these as followeth : know all men , he said , ties ruins build eternity ’ s mansions .
father conmee smelt incense on his right hand as he walked .
martin cunningham forgot to gieus his spellingbee conundrum this morning .
) _ bloom : _ ( uncloaks impressiey , revealing obesity , unrolls a paper and reads solemnly .
£ <NUMBER> reward , lost , stolen or strayed from his resiece <NUMBER> eccles street , missing gent about <NUMBER> , answering to the name of bloom , leopold ( poldy ) , height <NUMBER> ft <NUMBER> <NUMBER> / 2 inches , full build , oliecomplexion , may have since grown a beard , when last seen was wearing a black suit .
stmps : stickyback pictures .
while big ben dollard talked with simon dedalus , lighting , who nodded as he smoked , who smoked .
